---
layout: post
title:  "Session Three - That f*cking Mimic"
date:   2023-08-08 15:13:39 +1100
categories: jekyll update
---
## The treasure escaped. :(

The Captain moved through the throng of peasants attempting to get to the ticket, while Dennis flew above. When in position, Louie dropped the Moonbeam and Dennis played blocker, while The Captain sleigh handed the ticket away with nobody the wiser.

Leaving the peasants to their unseemly wrestling, we moved to the door and used the ticket. Ducking through, the party looked back at the distraught peons and Dennis gave them all the bird as the door closed.

## How long?

According to Ethan, that took 3 minutes.

## Verdant means Green.

Passing through the door, we found a idyllic scene of natural beauty. Flowers and ponds spread before us, leading to a large hedge maze, beyond which we could see a huge tree.

Scanning for tracks, we found the footprints of the shifter entering the maze. At the centre of the maze, Dennis could see a workshop. The party entered the maze and were immediately attacked by vine monsters.

Combat was met, with Dennis showing his cards usefulness by killing several vines. The Captain and Louie also did their share, but Raymond died.

We'd been minding our manners to this point, but obviously the nature spirits in this place were a bunch of arseholes, and they had it coming. After killing all but one of the vines (it retreated back into hedge), we set fire to the maze.

Louie entered the workshop and was transformed into a flowerpot. Meanwhile, dryads attacked us with explosives. Louie managed to roll back outside, and The Captain **smashed** him, killing him with left damage after the polymorph was dispelled.

We quickly brought Louie back and fled the scene.

## Little Weed!

We found ourselves in a clearing surrounded by little weeds that would trade healing and buffs for riddles answered. The party did pretty well early on, but got bogged down a bit (a lot) later.

The riddles, as best I remember, were:

* What lives in Winter, dies in Summer, and grows with its roots upward? **Answer:** An Icicle.
* What is the dirtiest word in the World? **Answer:** Pollution.
* What plant is the best kisser? **Answer:** A Tulip

## Field of Dreams (or Butterflies, whatever)

The party passed through a field filled with butterflies. We pretty much ignored them.

## Go on Louie, lick it!

The party came across a stick poking out of the ground, with what looked like honey coming out of it. At the prompting of the party (mainly The Captain), Louie stepped forward to lick it and was engulfed  huge Venus Fly Trap like plant.

Combat began, with the plant applying acid damage to Louie and Louie applying poison damage to the plant. Dennis pulled out his throwing cards again, and **ruled!** The plant was killed in the first round.

## The massacre of the Pygmies

The party came across a clearing, with a group of Vege-Pygmies sitting in a circle around a mushroom on a pedestal. They were swaying back and forth, having a great old time. When The Captain approached mushroom, he was waved back by the pygmies, but otherwise they ignored us.

When The Captain patted the pygmies heads, he was waved off again, but otherwise left unmolested.

The party elected not to interfere, and moved on. Massacre averted, part one.

## Door Puzzle

The party came upon the door at the far end of the carriage. It was set into an enormous tree, and there were 6 pedestals beside the path leading to it - 3 on either side of the path. One pair of pedestals h mushroom symbol, another had a butterfly symbol, and the last had a flowerpot symbol. Obviously we had to go back.

Most of the party got bogged down at the weeds again, but The Captain retrieved some butterflies and honey, and between them The Captain and Louie got some coloured flower pots from the shed.

## Here comes the Bride!

When we returned to get a mushroom, the mushroom we saw had turned into a large mushroom monster, with another one coming along the path. Ethan braced for a murderhobo spree, but we _shocked_ him by taking the peaceful route and participating in the mushroom peoples wedding, providing extra music and attending the reception afterward. Then we managed to ask (via sign language) for the mushroom people to come along with us to the door puzzle.

## Door Guardian

Once the pots and items were in place (the mushroom people stuck their hands into their pots), and the light was pointed in the right direction, the panel on the door activated and a ticket floated out. De stood on it to prevent it being stolen by the shapeshifter.

Of course it was at this point that the tree decides to attack. Remember what I said about the nature spirits in this area being a bunch of arseholes? Well, that tree picked a fight with the wrong people!

It had 4 limbs, each of which attacked and grappled. Louie was hoisted 60 feet into the air and dropped. The Captain caught him.

Dennis killed one limb, and when asked "how do you want to kill it?" said "It breaks off, and falls on the remaining two limbs, crushing them!" Astonishingly, that worked!

Then Dennis forewent his big damage cards for a bit and attacked with poison and fists. To his surprise, they worked! He then locked down all the remaining limbs, giving the parties damage dealers advantage attacks and automatic criticals.

Louie did one strike that pumped out 80 damage!

The tree died an ignominious death, the final blow being dealt by The Captain's doll, Oriana. That tree, like all the nature spirits here, was a little bitch.

## Return of that dick head

With combat concluded, we used the ticket to open the door, all the while keeping a sharp eye out for the shapeshifter. Not seeing any sign, we stepped through the door to a twisted fun fair.

To one side of the party was a house of mirrors. At this point, the shapeshifter:

* Slid off Louie (it had been masquerading as a burlap sack the whole time);
* Changed shape to some sort of humanoid;
* Ran to the house of mirrors and disappeared inside

All without anybody being able to react, despite it being made extremely clear we were on high alert. It didn't even trigger a reaction attack when it left melee range of the party. So, exactly as we expected it would go down.

## Here endeth the session.
