---
layout: post
title:  "Session Thirteen"
date:   2024-04-24 15:13:39 +1100
categories: jekyll update
---
## Hiding the evidence

Before Dennis and The Captain went any further, they considered what to do about the fragile, defenseless Boobies. Rusty briefly popped out of the ship, drained Dennis a little (without him knowing) and healed him back up.  Then he held onto little Boobies and Plane Shifted back into the ship.

Then Dennis and The Captain left the Modron world and reunited with their Slaadi servants, and proceeded (with Esmerelda and Slaad von Zarovitch) out to the approach to the Spawning Stone, which stood atop a stepped pyramid.

In front of the stone (about 60' in front), at the base of the pyramid, was a tall obelisk, with Louie tied to the top (about 60' up) and Raymond tied beneath him.  At the Spawning Stone stood Ygorl, and 30' in front of him, half way down the pyramid, were two Slaadi - one red, and one green.

The Spawning Stone was firing chaos lightning every couple of seconds to the top of Louie's obelisk, draining Louie and empowering the Slaadi.

## Rearranging the Party

The Captain was apparently exhausted from his valiant thinking in the Modron world, and chose to move to the back of the party, with the other sneaky characters we rarely see - Esmerelda and Slaad von Zarovitch.  It's getting crowded back there.  He chose to spend the rest of his time providing the help action to characters in combat, resulting in a lot of advantage rolls which turned out to be very useful.  

Dennis was feeling a little exposed out front, and while he briefly considered soloing Ygorl, thought that Louie might also like a go.

Initiative!  Dennis came first easily, followed by the Green Slaad, then the Red Slaad, then Ygorl.  Dennis shadow stepped to the top of the obelisk, and used his attacks and ki to interrupt the chaos lightning, then cut Louie free and flew down to within 10' of the ground (the limit of his remaining movement) and dropped Louie the last 10'.  Louie, now conscious, rolls initiative for himself, and comes in between the two enemy Slaadi.  Dennis forgets at this point to do the actions for our companion Slaadi, and they are unceremoniously (and permanently) moved to the bottom of the initiative order.

Louie lays out his portable hole and jumps in, because he is concerned about dehydration.  Also to provide a fall target for Raymond when he in untied.

## Combat!

The Green Slaad starts off, and fireballs the party.  Dennis, of course, contemptuously ignores him, but Louie takes some damage.  The Louie has his go, but I forget what he does.  The Red Slaad runs down the pyramid and engages in melee with Louie, but misses.  Ygorl teleports to Dennis and hits, then misses, then hits with entropic touch.  Our Slaadi get a go - Cinderblock fireballs the two enemy Slaadi (Ygorl was positioned such that we couldn't hit him without hitting Louie), Booger hurls flame at the Red Slaad, and Bluey and Blood-Axe run into melee and hit the Red Slaad.  Dennis finishes the Red one off on his go, and then throws cards at Ygorl, two of which crit.  The Green Slaad casts fear, but it's not very effective.

Ygorl gets pissed after being critted by Dennis and kills him - Power Word Kill.  Dennis' max HP are 6 HP too low to resist it.  Louie tries revivify but gets counter-spelled by Ygorl.  Ygorl thinks he is pretty bloody clever.

Esmerelda then revivifies Dennis (suck it Ygorl!) and Slaad von Zarovitch Power Word Heals Dennis (suck it again, Ygorl!).  The Green Slaad casts confusion and Dennis fails his save.  It's Dennis' turn!  What will happen?

As the rest of the party prepares to flee, Dennis rolls - 8.  He will attack a randomly selected target in range, of which there are 3 - 2 of our Slaad and Ygorl.  Ygorl is 5-6 on d6 - it's a 6!  Dennis crits Ygorl.  Suck it Ygorl!

Louie tries to hit Ygorl but misses.  Raymond succeeds in hitting Ygorl, but Ygorl is immune to the grapple effect.  The Green Slaad casts Fear on the party - _nobody_ fails their save.  Useless frog.  Dennis, still confused, randomly hits a target - Ygorl. Raymond gets confused, Louie misses Ygorl.  Ygorl murders his own Green Slaad to heal himself for 127HP.  Coward.

Raymond, confused, attacks a random target - Ygorl - and hits.  Ethan, at this point, is irritated that _all_ the random targets are Ygorl, and insists we change his number range from 5-6 to 1-2, just in case we are using a weighted d6.

Dennis, still confused, attacks a random target.  There are only 2 in range - Ygorl gets the 1-3 range, as per Ethan's instructions.  1!  Dennis crits for massive damage.  Ygorl is getting irritated and hits Dennis, but Dennis redirects the damage back at Ygorl - another 20HP.  Suck it, Ygorl!

Raymond attacks Ygorl, Dennis apparently casts a spell (how?  what?).  Louie gets the last hit, and kills Ygorl, who explodes with some sort of retributive damage, which kills Dennis - again.  Fortunately his Regeneration is still running, so he bounces back.

## Boobies to the rescue!

We bring out Boobies and give him Ygorl's scythe.  At this point we notice our Slaadi start acting weird.  Apparently, the sight of a Modron drives them into a killing frenzy.

Dennis grabs Boobies and Shadow Steps to the obelisk (60' away).  Raymond swallows Cinderblock to restrain him.  Bluey & Blood-Axe, who have no ranged attacks, start running to where Boobies is, but won't get there in time.  Booger lines up a ranged attack - but Louie steps up and says "Come at me, bro!".  Compelled Duel.  Nice.  Booger can't attack anyone but Louie now.

Boobies takes a swing at the obelisk, which cracks, shatters, and turns into a whirlwind that sucks all the remaining Slaadi into it (Raymond quickly vomits up Cinderblock).

Ygorl is dead!  The obelisk is destroyed! The excess Slaadi are gone!  Wins all round.

## Finit