---
layout: post
title:  "Session Seven"
date:   2024-01-13 15:13:39 +1100
categories: jekyll update
---
## The important thing happens first

Everyone in the party gets a feat! Merry Christmas!

## The train station

Exiting the forest, we see a 3 story building. The Captain climbs the side of the building - Dennis flies along beside him, asking him where we're going. As we near the top, we hear a clacking noise. TC peeks, and sees 2 animated marionettes fencing with their broken arms. TC tells Oriana to climb up - she crit fails and breaks her leg, so Dennis flies down to bring her up.

During this time, a creepy voice is heard from the forest. Esmerelda responds in the time honoured, player character appropriate manner, and kills it with a thrown dagger before we even know what it is. Raymond then eats it. I think it was a halfling.

Then a dwarf comes out of the building and offers us directions back to the Revalia. His name was Watt, but none of the obvious jokes were made. After he learned we were part of the revelion, he invites us in. He has a friend inside, DC, who is in the late stages of clownification. We told Watt about the room in the Hostile Hostel that cures clownification, which baffled the Gods (the DM) who had no memory of this place. After extensive perusing of the oracles (the module) it was determined the players were correct, and rules were defined regarding exactly how it worked. Unfortunately, DC is too far gone for it to help.

Watt tells us of a different key for the Boring Room, that would allow entry to a room in the Fun House where the schematics for the train were kept. He gave us the key, and we gave him the moonstone.

## To the Funhouse

In the Hostile Hostel, we used the new key on the Boring Room, and it opened to a long corridor lined with masks. At the far end was a small door, and next to it was a sleeping Jawbreaker (a big, muscly clown). He had a balloon dog on his shoulder. The Captain turned invisible and entered the corridor.

TC pickpocketed the key on the Jawbreakers belt and then saw that it would not fit the keyhole of the door. As he did this, he became aware that the balloon dog was looking directly at him, and trying to wake the Jawbreaker up. TC held up Oriana (with her needle) and moved her slowly closer to the dog.

**BANG!** The ensuing explosion destroyed the balloon dog, threw TC across the room doing major damage, and blew the Jawbreakers head clean off.

At this point we found that TC could not leave the room now. Anything we put in would not come back out.

The masks on the wall started vomiting bags and a puzzle cube onto the floor of the corridor. TC tried putting the masks in the bag, which worked, but then the lights went out and when they came back, TC was gone. It was hard to tell - he had been invisible the whole time.

After significant prevarication, Dennis and Louie entered the room and tried to find TC. We turned the bag inside out - nothing. Then the bag started vibrating, and it soon exploded, doing a stack of psychic damage.

Dennis tried unwinding the timer on the puzzle cube - it made a noise. Soon afterward, Louie and Dennis were pulled into the bags by furry slendermen. Combat ensued, the MVP move was by Louie when he cast Daylight just inside the opening to the bag. Dennis stunned the one that was next to him and dragged it out of the bag, where we whaled on it until it died. Its 2 friends ran away like the cowards they were, hiding in the dark.

Combat over, the bag went from pink back to normal BoH colour. I don't trust it.

TC tried to pick the lock of the tiny door, it didn't work, but the lock changed shape to spell out the words "The answer is in front of your face". To cut a long story short, eventually TC shoved a mask into the door and it opened. We went through the door, and immediately started to shrink. When we were small enough to fall between the fibres of the carpet, we teleported back out to the Boring Room, back to full size. Which isn't that big, to be honest. At least we had the schematics.

## Back to the station

We return to the station and give Watt the schematics. He says it will take about 12 hours to decode them. We Long Rest, then head out to the Jamboree. We pickpocket a bunch of people and pick up dropped tickets. The total haul was significant.

On the way, there was an announcement where Dufus McSmallhouse had betrayed Stella to Hecna. He was the new Master of Ceremonies, and Sophie (Stella's sister) lowered her into a vat of wax. This caused less consternation amongst the party than it probably should have. While being lowered, Stella traces some signs on her arm in her own blood before wiping them away. They were the Symbols for **G**ames and **E**nemy, which forms the Cartouche for **Car**pe Colossus.

## Here endeth the session.
