---
layout: post
title:  "Session 32 - Full Murderhobo"
date:   2025-04-27 15:13:39 +1100
categories: jekyll update
---

# Kill 'em all, let the Gods sort them out

As the party makes it way to the original room of the Dr Alaris' complex, she says:

> If Sinned is aware that we are here, then time is of the essence. Perhaps we should go through the brain door and get the items we need.  Alternatively, we can go to the Incubation Dome and kill some of my abominations.  There are enough herbs in my rom to make a toxin that we should be able to use to overcome Sinned's poison resistance.

The Captain says we go full Murderhobo and head to the Incubation Dome.

Rusty then makes the mistake of asking the party for input about what attunement slots they have open, thinking that he could craft a few Rings of Mind Shielding.  This led to a critical overload of analysis paralysis across the whole party, and stalled all progress for a not inconsiderable time.  In the end, Rusty gave up and we did nothing.  On to the Dome!

We go through the Cloning Room.  Unexpectedly, it is a perfectly normal room with nothing weird at all in it.  The only thing even slightly out of the ordinary is a normal looking treasure chest in the corner - and the only odd thing about it is how normal it looks. The party is instantly suspicious, and The Captain throws a rock at it.  Even more unexpectedly, our suspicions are instantly proven correct, as the chest transforms into a Mimic.  The party starts to spin up its Mimic smashing equipment, but the Mimic informs us hurriedly that it doesn't want to eat us - it collects memories, and if we tell it a good enough story, we can freely pass.

# The Mimic 

The mimic's name is Memoir, and The Captain is first to tell a story.

<details><summary><u>The Captain's Story</u></summary><div><p>
There was once a party of adventurers.  They had all the members that a good adventuring party should have - a mighty Paladin, a dashing Archer, a learned Wizard, and a weird little old lady.  They had been tasked to check on a lady who lived in a tower.  As they approached the tower, they could see the lady, half out of a high window, being attacked by a hideous monster.  The Monster roared!  The lady screamed!  Charging to the rescue, they fought the monster off.  Eventually, it tried to flee, but the archer was too talented, too powerful, and he shot it from the sky, bringing it to earth - dead.</p>
<p>The lady, turning to her rescuers, said - "Why did you do that?  It was only seeking for a potion to help it's sick wife!"
</p></div></details>

Memoir thinks this story is touching, and grants The Captain permission to pass - but first, he gobs something up onto the end of his tongue, and tells The Captain to take it.  The Captain does, and receives 4 doses of [Sovereign Glue](https://scottsedgwick.github.io/MagicItems/magic-items.html#sovereign-glue).  

Horus steps forward.

<details><summary><u>Horus' Tale</u></summary><div><p>
Horus tells a convoluted story of a rabbitfolk, trapped in a recursive loop of time from which he cannot escape.
</p></div></details>

Memoir has a low bar for entertainment, because he thinks this is also a gripping emotional tale of doomed hardship.  (DOOMED!)  Horus gets 2 doses of [Universal Solvent](https://scottsedgwick.github.io/MagicItems/magic-items.html#universal-solvent).

Dennis is up next.

<details><summary><u>Dennis' Tale</u></summary><div><p>
Dennis regales Memoir with the enraging story of <b>That Fucking Mimic</b>, and how all the rules changed to always enable it to escape.
</p></div></details>

Of course Mimic is horrified by the rampant rule breaking, and rewards Dennis with 4 Potions of [Oil of Etherealness](https://scottsedgwick.github.io/MagicItems/magic-items.html#oil-of-etherealness).

Louie wants some of this action.

<details><summary><u>Louie's Tale</u></summary><div><p>
Louie tells the story of the battle against the Werebeasts.  Strangely, he chooses to regale Memoir with the one about the priest in the church that turned out to be an irredeemably evil mass murderer, instead of the more righteous crusade against the monstrous Weresharks.  Anyway, he tells Memoir about the evil priest, the trap he set, the betrayal of the townsfolk, the evil god he was raising, and the climactic two final battles that saw our heroes triumph over all odds!  Gripping!
</p></div></details>

Memoir loves this, and rewards Louie with 4 [Potions of Psionic Fortitude](https://scottsedgwick.github.io/MagicItems/magic-items.html#potion-of-psionic-fortitude)

Rusty also tells a story, but it isn't recorded which one.  He is rewarded with one [Potion of Invulnerability](https://scottsedgwick.github.io/MagicItems/magic-items.html#potion-of-invulnerability).

# Return to Thunder (Incubation) Dome

The door beyond Memoir is suspiciously normal.  Dennis is bored by now and doesn't care - he just goes straight up to it and opens it, the reckless fool!  Nothing happens.  Behind it are 2 corridors, labelled with their destinations.  To the left is the "Incubation Dome".  To the right is the "Intellect Devourer Preserve".  The party heads to the left.

We enter a dome-shaped room with glowing sacs suspended from the ceiling. Lines of ooze leak from the sacs and trail to the floor, where they form pools of hideous goop.  Suspended inside each sac are Intellect Devourers.  In the center of the room is a Psionic Pedestal.  On the far side of the room is another corridor, leading onwards.

The party, having just been told all this, are now required to make Athletics/Acrobatics skill checks to not walk into the pools of obviously toxic goop.  Everyone succeeds, to the astonishment of all and great disappointment of Ethan.  Nothing happens.

We rationally discuss what we should do at this point, and collaboratively decide that we, as a group, should adhere to our collective principles, and murder every sac in the place.  The Captain, assuming his traditional role as CEO, just stabs one.  He _does_ kill it, but takes 30 points of poison damage for his trouble.  This starts an avalanche of different and interesting ways to kill Intellect Devourers.  Rusty backs up to the entryway and fires lightning at them.  Louie, leaning into his immunity to poison, stats smashing them with his Morningstar.  Horus finds somewhere protected and starts spamming Ray of Frost.

Vilgax wanders up to the Psionic Pedestal, and informs the party that there are a number of controls available: "Implant DNA Markers", "Activate" and "Terminate". He asks if he should press any of them.  The Captain, possibly distracted whilst scrubbing all the poison off, immediately says "All of them!".

In Vilgax's defence, he does ask if The Captain is sure, and even makes the same query of the rest of the party.  The rest of the party is too stunned by The Captains audacity, and The Captain never changes his mind, so OK.  They are all pressed.

The Pedestal immediately starts to glow and melts entirely, doing 6 points of poison damage to Vilgax.  All of the remaining sacs (12 in all) start to swell, shrink, change colour, and then split open, ejecting the infant Intellect Devourers onto the floor - dead.  The party breathes a sigh of relief.

The the Intellect Devourers stand up, and get a surprise round, because _nobody_ saw this coming.  Louie takes 5 slashing and another 34 radiant from a divine smite.  Another one builds a weapon from scrap and uses it to shoot Rusty, but misses.  A third punches Dennis (what with?) for 4 points of force damage, but Dennis makes his save and is not stunned.

### Initiative! 

Horus first on 30, then The Captain on 28 and Rusty on 26.  Raymond comes next on 22, then Louie on 21.

### Round 1

It is not recorded what Horus did.  The Captain stabs 2, one of them dies (again).  Then he hides.

An Intellect Devourer touches Dennis, but there is no effect because Ethan forgot Dennis was immune to poison.

Rusty lightnings some Intellect Devourers, then uses up all his sorcery points (he hasn't had a chance to use them, OK?) to quicken and twin a Chaos Bolt.  The second bolt twins again, so he manages to damage 3 Devourers.

An Intellect Devourer has a go at Louie, but passed too close to The Captain who kills it with an opportunity attack.

Raymond clobbers another one twice and kills it.  Blackrazor uses the soul energy to cast Haste on Raymond, so he has another go on a few of the Devourers near Rusty.

A Devourer punches Horus for 2 force damage, and Horus also makes his save vs stunning.  Louie hits the Devourer.

Another Devourer shadow steps inside Rusty's armour, and hits him for 28 sneak attack damage and another 29 divine smite damage.

Dennis goes _off_ and kills 3 on his turn.

The Intellect Devourer inside Rusty's armour gets _another_ turn, because why not, and does another 16 sneak attack damage, because Rusty doesn't know he's there, right?  This is enough to drop Rusty.  It then hits him 2 more times to burn through 2 of his death saves.

### Round 2

Horus kills the last visible Intellect Devourer, and the party then looks around counting on their fingers.  The Devourer inside Rusty's armour attempts to impersonate Rusty's telepathic voice and says "What now, fellow adventurers?"  This would have been a great tactic, except for 2 things: one, The Captain, with his Ring of Mind Shielding, had accepted communication from Rusty but not the Devourer - so he didn't hear it, which caused some confusion.

And two, Minion, who has been residing in his space inside Rusty's armour all this time, takes action and hits the Eject button, shoving Rusty, The Intellect Devourer and Minion out onto the floor.  The Captain feeds Rusty a healing potion while Raymond stomps the Intellect Devourer.  Rusty, as a temporary measure, fills the spaces in his armour with caltrops.  This is not the last we will hear about this.

Combat over.

# The way is shut. It was made by the Dead, and the Dead keep it.

Horus finds some memory shard on the floor.  Dr Alaris informs the party the Sinned has locked the pathways from the Intellect Devourer reserve and to the Neural Extraction chamber.  There's nothing for it now, we'll have to travel through the Revallian prison to proceed.  Vilgax mentions that we should probably have a rest.  We ignore him and go to free the Revallians.  Vilgax casts Heal on Rusty and Horus, and checks with The Captain whether is was actually OK that he pushed all the buttons.  Don't worry, Vilgax - we love hitting shit.

We return to the initial larval room, to the brain door.  It senses us coming and ushes over Dr Alaris, and then opens.  We go through to the next chamber. It smells of antiseptic. The floor is slippery, and bright lights illuminate the space.  The room is filled with pods, each containing a mutating creature inside.  The Captain's head itches, probably because it's been a long time since we washed and his dandruff is acting up.  In the center of the room is a control panel, and on e wall is covered with a grotesque mural.

Leading from the room is a line of 3 Mind Flayer statues.  Each statue has a hole in the front of it.  One statue is holding shears, another grasps a geode, and the last one a sheet of parchment.

Rusty gets a sense of deja vu from the patterns of psychic energy embedded in the walls - they seem familiar, almost as if _he had designed them_. He reads the mural.

<details><summary><u>The Mural</u></summary><p>
<i>But in the darkness beyond comprehension, a shadow stirred - a remnant of a broken demon lord. Orcus, once Prince of Undeath, was cast down by the treacherous Drow goddess Kiaransalee.  His name was erased from memory; his dominion crumbled into ruin.  Yet even death could not hold him. Through vile rituals and the prayers of his mortal thralls, Orcus returned as Tenebrous - a hollow shade driven by vengeance and hunger for lost divinity.</i></p>
<p>
This panel shows Tenebrous as a spectral figure wreathed in necrotic energy. His form is barely solid, a shadowy mockery of life. Around him lie the shattered symbols of Orcus' former power; a broken skull scepter and a crumbling throne.
</p></details>

Vilgax leads The Captain over to the control panel and shows him the controls.

<details><summary><u>Control Panel Options</u></summary><p>
<ol>
  <li>Release: Releases a partially transformed subject from its pod, creating a violent thrall driven by residual psychic agony.</li>
  <li>Insert Aggression Gene: Floods the pod with adrenaline-like compounds, accelerating physical mutations while eroding the victim's sanity.</li>
  <li>Recycle: Dissolves failed subjects into nutrient slurry for recycling into the central psionic amplifier.</li>
  <li>Complete: Completes the transformation process, creating a fully matured Mind Flayer.</li>
  <li>Neural Resequencing: Overwrites residual host memories using psychic imprints.</li>
  <li>Symbiotic Acceleration: Introduces additional tadpoles to create hybrid creatures.</li>
  <li>Psionic Sync: Links multiple pods to share psychic trauma, creating hive-mind bonds between emerging Illithids.</li>
</ol>
</p></details>

After some back and forth, the decision is made to recycle all the Mind Flayers growing in the room.

Louie checks out the statues.  He tries putting the shears in the hole of the statue holding the shears, and takes 36 psychic damage for his trouble.  Learning from his error, he puts the geode into the hole of the shears statue.  This doesn't cause psychic damage, and provides him with a key, which encourages him to greater heights of idiocy.  He puts the parchment into the hole of the geode statue, and gets another key.  Lastly, he puts the shears into the hole in the parchment statue.  Another key!

We head downstairs, where we find a corridor formed from preserved tongues, whispering secrets.  Rusty and Louie listen, while Dennis, Horus and The Captain attempt to close their ears.  Dennis, Horus and Louie are all required to make saves vs exhaustion, which they all succeed at.  Accordingly, they are OK.  Rusty and Louie each get one level of exhaustion automatically, and have to save vs a second - which they both succeed at.

<details><summary><u>Louie's Secret</u></summary><p>
You are being hunted by the one based on the most zen of your party.
</p></details>

If there isn't some sort of Dennis-terminator coming up, I will be disappointed.

<details><summary><u>Rusty's Secret</u></summary><p>
Why are you still here, Architect? You already know that your family is not in this domain any more.
</p></details>

Dr Alaris points to the right, and says "That way lies the Thrall Warrens, followed by the Guardian of Hesh.  To the left lies the hall of Memories, followed by the Revellian pods."  To the left we shall go!

Before us is a door, with a riddle: "I speak without tongue, I hear without ears, my words are felt, not heard. What am I?"  Psionics, you are psionics.  We're getting good at this, and anyway, the answer is always psionics.

# Oh my god, the Hall of Memories.

Buckle up, everyone.

Horus sees a mural on the wall.

<details><summary><u>The Aftermath</u></summary>
<p><i>With Maanzecorian destroyed, Rictus collapsed into ruin. The Great Library was plundered by scavengers; its secrets scattered across planes like ash on the wind. Our god's petrified remains drift now upon the Astral Plane - a monument to what was lost.</i></p>
<p><i>His death sent tremors through our kind: some turned back to Ilsensine for guidance; others abandoned her altogether. Yet we remember. We remember how even gods may fall before powers greater than themselves."</i></p>
<p>This panel shows Rictus crumbling into darkness while Illithids mourn beneath its ruins. In the background floats a shattered fragment resembling Maanzecorian's petrified form adrift in the Astral Plane.</p>
</details>

Rusty can see a pneumatic index near the entrance.  It is a catalog. Rusty peruses the index. He sees there is an entry of a woman in an icy tundra walking toward a town hall. People are cheering.  Rusty tries to make out what they are saying - "Thank the Gods for the Forfanage!  Blessed times aboard Dunmanifestin!"  She goes into her office and stands before a mirror.  The image flickers - it reveals that she is a Mind Flayer in disguise!

In the center of the room are depressions in the stone, shaped like the various members of the party.  As each party member lays down in their depression, a voice calls out: "Truth lies hidden within falsehood. Identify what, or if, there are any details wrong with your memories."

### Round 1 

<details><summary><u>Horus Memory # 1: Childhood Wonder</u></summary><p>
As a young rabbitfolk kit, six-year old Horus stands transfixed beneath the observatory dome in his village, watching the village elders manipulate a miniature orrery. Time itself seems to dance before his eyes as the planetary model spins. A wizened elder notices his fascination and places a small brass timepiece in his paws. "Some are born with time in their blood," she whispers. "Remember this feeling." The memory pulses with childlike wonder and the first spark of his chronomantic calling.
</p></details>

Horus thinks this memory is accurate.

<details><summary><u>Rusty Memory #1: First Flight</u></summary><p>
The memory pulses with pink light as young Rusty hovers unsteadily above the luminescent fungi that carpet the hidden colony caverns. Hi parents float nearby, their tentacles gently guiding his movements as he learns to control his air jets for the first time. The rush of accomplishment floods through his as he successfully navigates around a stalactite, his body glowing bright pink with joy. The colony elders observe from a distance, their soft telepathic encouragement warming his consciousness.</p><p>
"Remember, little one," his mother's thoughts whisper, "always maintain awareness of which side is up. A flipped flumph is a vulnerable flumph."
</p></details>

Rusty thinks there are errors - he was raised in a forest, not a cave.

<details><summary><u>The Captain's Memory #1: The Claiming of The Dreadnaught</u></summary><p>
The memory shimmers with salt spray and fear. A young halfling balances on the bowsprit of a merchant vessel, rain lashing his face as pirates board from starboard. When the pirate captain corners the ship's owner, the halfling leaps between them, rapier drawn.</p>
<p>I challenge you for this vessel," the halfling declares, his voice steady despite standing barely above the pirate's waist.</p>
<p>Laughter erupts until his blade flickers like lightning, drawing first blood. The duel spans the entire deck, the halfling dancing between attacks with uncanny grace. With a final flourish, he disarms the pirate captain, who yields with surprising respect.</p>
<p>"What will you name her?" asks a surviving crewman amid the aftermath.</p>
<p>The halfling gazes at the ship, feeling its weight and promise.  "The Dreadnaught!"
</p></details>

The Captain notices some discrepancies: he was not afraid at the beginning, and he didn't shout "The Dreadnaught", he whispered it.

<details><summary><u>Louie's Memory #1: The end of home</u></summary><p>
The memory swirls with muted greens and browns as Louie huddles beneath a worn table, watching wide-eyed as their parents argue in hushed, desperate tones.</p>
<p>"The child must be given to the temple for cleansing," their father croaks, fear evident in his bulging eyes. "Yagno's inquisitors search every home - they know divine magic manifested in this district."</p>
<p>"They will kill our tadpole!" Louie's mother counters, her throat sac pulsing with emotion.</p>
<p>The memory centers on the moment Louie's mother kneels, pressing a small carved stone amulet into their hands. "Run to the eastern swamps," she whispers. "Follow the water. Never use your gift where others can see."</p>
<p>The crushing weight of farewell saturates the memory as Louie looks back one final time from the window - knowing somehow they would never see their family again. The small grung's chest tightens with abandonment, even as they understand their parent's sacrifice.
</p></details>

Louie thinks the whole first memory was fabricated and thinks he was alone very early and doesn’t remember it well. 

<details><summary><u>Dennis' Memory #1: The Accident</u></summary>
<p>During a training session with Van Richten on trying to keep Dennis's blood lust in check.</p>
<p>A courier delivering a shipment of specific herbs to Van Richten.</p>
<p>Found their way coming downstairs.</p>
<p>As she made her way down the narrow passage, her hand caught on a rusted nail, drawing blood. The metallic scent immediately reached Dennis, triggering something primal within him.</p>
<p>His eyes darkened. In an instant, he slammed Van Richten against the stone wall with inhuman strength, snatched the key from the man's pocket, and bolted toward the door. His hands trembled as he fumbled with the lock, desperate to escape the overwhelming hunger building inside him. Beyond the threshold, the courier stood frozen in shock. Their eyes met for only a moment before Dennis lunged forward. What followed was pure carnage-his rational mind submerged beneath waves of bloodlust as he tore into the unfortunate messenger.</p>
<p>Richton finally managed to pull him away from the courier's mangled remains, but it was far too late. The damage was done.</p>
<p>Now huddled on the cold floor, Dennis rocked back and forth, overwhelmed by guilt and disgust. The horrific scene replayed in his mind-the blood, the screams, his complete lack of control. He looked up at Van Richten with pleading eyes.
"Please," he whispered, "either stake me through the heart right now or brew me something to make me forget what I've done."</p>
</p></details>

Dennis thinks he would have drained them till they were brain dead but there wouldn’t be blood. 

### Round 2

<details><summary><u>Horus Memory #2: The Warning Unheeded</u></summary><p>
Horus, now a young wizard of twenty-two, bursts into the Council Chamber, disrupting the elders' meeting. "I've seen them in my scrying!" he shouts, charts and calculations tumbling from his arms. "Mind flayers approach from the north!" The memory stings with the acid of dismissal as the Chief Elder pats his shoulder condescendingly. "Your prognostications grow more fantastic each season, young one. Return to your studies." The bitterness of being right-yet powerless-permeates this
memory.
</p></details>

Horus thinks it’s true.

<details><summary><u>Rusty Memory #2: Taste of Wonder</u></summary>
<p>Rusty follows his father to the edge of their territory where crystalline formations create a natural barrier between their world and the domain of the Fae. Hidden behind a cluster of glowing crystals, they observe a gathering of fey creatures dancing in a ring of mushrooms.</p>
<p>"Observe, but never reveal yourself," his father's thoughts caution. "The emotions they radiate are nourishing, but their attention can be dangerous."</p>
<p>For the first time, Rusty carefully extends his psychic feelers to taste the emotional energy radiating from the celebration. The memory glows green with curiosity as he experiences the intoxicating flavors of joy, mischief, and wonder-so different from the measured calm of his colony. It's his first feast of pure, positive emotion, and it leaves him dizzy with delight.</p>
<p>What he doesn't notice in this memory, but is visible as he revisits it now, is a shadowy tentacled form watching him from the darkness behind.</p>
</details>

Rusty thinks the shadowy form may be untrue, but also he couldn’t remember.

<details><summary><u>The Captain's Memory #2: The Betrayal at Crescent Bay</u></summary>
<p>Rain pours across this memory as the halfling stands on deck, watching his first mate row away with the ship's strongbox. Crew members shout for pursuit, but the captain raises his hand.</p>
<p>"I knew," he says quietly, watching the distant figure disappear into the storm. "I saw it in his eyes three days ago."</p>
<p>"Why not stop him?" demands the quartermaster.</p>
<p>"Everyone deserves a chance to choose their path," the captain answers, revealing a false strongbox. "But choices have consequences."</p>
<p>The memory shifts to the same mate months later, destitute and ashamed in a portside tavern. Instead of vengeance, the captain offers him a mop.</p>
<p>"Redemption starts with clean decks," he says. "Everyone deserves a second chance-but never a third."</p>
</details>

Captain thinks it’s true.

<details><summary><u>Louie's Memory #2: The Sacred Pool</u></summary>
<p>The memory glimmers with dappled light filtering through cypress branches. After two years of solitary survival, Louie discovers a hidden pond with the clearest water they've ever seen. As they submerge themselves, an overwhelming sense of peace washes over their small form.</p>
<p>Rising to the surface, Louie extends their hands over the water experimentally. Divine energy flows unbidden, causing the pool to glow with soft radiance. For the first time since fleeing, Louie weeps openly-not from fear or loneliness, but from the profound relief of connection to something greater.</p>
<p>The memory crystallizes around Louie's decision to make this their sanctuary-a place to practice their forbidden gifts away from judgmental eyes. Here, surrounded by nature's embrace rather than G'henna's cruel austerity, they begin to understand that their power comes not from Zhakata's wrath, but from compassion itself.</p>
</details>

Louie not convinced that the power comes from Zhakata's wrath, he also is not relieved of the something greater but more questioning as to why. 

<details><summary><u>Dennis' Memory #2: The Summoning</u></summary>
<p>The memory begins with disorientation-being pulled from a realm of swirling colors and ethereal music. Dennis finds himself materializing in a perfectly circular chamber with towering windows of stained glass. Before him stands a slender high elf with piercing silver eyes and midnight-blue robes adorned with celestial symbols. The elf's expression shifts from concentration to delight.</p>
<p>"It worked!" the elf exclaims, his voice musical yet commanding. "Welcome to Thaan, little one." Dennis feels simultaneously afraid and drawn to the elf, whose name hovers just beyond recall- something beginning with an S. The memory is saturated with the wonder of first consciousness, of being seen.</p>
<p>"I need a companion," the elf says, kneeling to meet Dennis's gaze. "One who will witness and record what is to come. The illithids grow stronger each day, and I must preserve our knowledge."</p>
<p>Though unable to speak yet, Dennis feels an inexplicable bond forming-the first thread of a connection that would define centuries of his existence.</p>
</details>

Dennis thinks the memory is true except the illithids. 

### Round 3

<details><summary><u>Horus Memory #3: The Last Glimpse</u></summary><p>
Atop the hills overlooking his burning homeland, Horus pauses for one final look. Through a gap in the smoke, he witnesses an Elder Brain being installed in the sacred grove, its psychic tendrils already reshaping the land. In that moment, hatred crystallizes within him-no longer abstract fear, but a tangible, driving force. The memory pulses with the solemn vow he whispers: "I will unmake this moment, whatever the cost."
</p></details>

Horus thinks lack of Gary is untrue. 

<details><summary><u>Rusty Memory #3: The Beckoning Voice</u></summary>
<p>This memory differs from the others-flowing and insubstantial like water. Rusty floats in darkness while a soft, compelling voice speaks directly into his mind.</p>
<p>"You are special among your kind, little observer. Your psychic sensitivity surpasses theirs. You could learn so much more..."</p>
<p>The dream-memory pulses between curious green and cautious blue as Rusty responds hesitantly, "Who are you?"</p>
<p>"A teacher. A guide. Someone who sees your potential. Return to the edge of the Citadel tomorrow at moonrise. Watch. Learn. Grow stronger."</p>
<p>Upon waking, Rusty had felt drawn to follow these instructions without questioning their source-a subtle compulsion now plainly visible in the memory as thin purple threads of psychic manipulation.</p>
</details>

Rusty thinks it’s unlikely. He is not convinced that that memory is real at all. 

<details><summary><u>The Captain's Memory #3: The Lover's Ultimatum</u></summary>
<p>Sunset bathes this memory in gold. The captain stands on a pristine dock beside a beautiful woman dressed in finery.</p>
<p>"The manor has room for a retired captain," she says. "You've had enough adventures for ten lifetimes."</p>
<p>The halfling looks between her and the Dreadnought bobbing in the harbor. His hand touches hers tenderly.</p>
<p>"The sea isn't something you retire from," he answers softly. "It's something you surrender to, eventually."</p>
<p>Tears well in her eyes. "You're choosing death over life with me."</p>
<p>"I'm choosing the life I can breathe in," he corrects her, kissing her hand. "Some belong to land, some to sea. Pretending otherwise would drown us both in regret."</p>
<p>As he walks back toward his ship, the memory captures his face-torn between longing and certainty.</p>
</details>

The Captain thinks its true, he had a relationship with Jasmine.

<details><summary><u>Louie's Memory #3: The Betrayal</u></summary>
<p>Trading Outpost, Swamp Edge, Age 18</p>
<p>The memory burns with crimson betrayal. After years of quietly helping lost travelers, Louie has developed cautious relationships with a few trusted outsiders who bring supplies in exchange for medicinal swamp plants. One such trader, a gaunt man with kind eyes, has visited monthly for over a year.</p>
<p>The memory centers on Louie's shock when this same man returns with three of Yagno's inquisitors, pointing directly at their hiding spot. "The heretic frog-creature lives there-now fulfill your promise of food for my children."</p>
<p>The memory freezes on Louie's eyes meeting the trader's-seeing the man's shame beneath his desperation. In G'henna, betrayal for food is not merely understandable; it's practically inevitable.</p>
</details>

Louie can believe it, it happens multiple times and is disappointing. 

<details><summary><u>Dennis' Memory #3: The Expedition</u></summary>
<p>Dennis clutches his first journal-bound in blue leather with silver clasps-as he follows S through narrow passages glittering with illuminated crystals. The memory pulses with excitement and danger.</p>
<p>They discover an ancient illithid outpost, abandoned centuries ago. While S examines strange mechanisms embedded in the walls, Dennis documents everything with meticulous detail.</p>
<p>"Your observations are extraordinary," S praises, examining Dennis's sketches. "You capture details even I miss."</p>
<p>The memory glows with validation, but darkens when S removes a pulsating crystal from a sealed chamber despite Dennis's hesitation. When questioned, S's normally warm eyes flash with something cold.</p>
<p>"Some knowledge requires sacrifice, dear Dennis. Remember that."</p>
<p>As they return to Thaan, Dennis feels the first faint shadow of doubt about his master's methods.</p>
</details>

Dennis thinks that his writing is unimpressive to S.

### Round 4

<details><summary><u>Horus Memory #4: The Mercy Denied</u></summary>
<p>Horus corners a lone illithid researcher in an abandoned outpost. It cowers before him, telepathically pleading that it was merely a scholar, not a warrior in the invasion. For a breath, compassion flickers in Horus's heart-until he notices the creature reaching for a hidden psychic beacon. The memory freezes at the moment of decision, his staff raised high, mercy vanishing as he chooses vengeance over understanding. The killing blow carries the weight of his soul's darkening.</p>
</details>

Horus thinks the staff is bullshit, he is using his flayer slayer. Horus knows how much power knowledge has so while he may of felt a little bad, he did what had to be done. 

<details><summary><u>The Captain's Memory #4: The Final Port</u></summary>
<p>The captain is in a underbelly fight ring fighting a giant woman, he is quick and nimble, but she
pulls a move with her battleaxe that stops him in his tracks as he slides in a gorey two pieces. As his consciousness slips away from the mortal realm, he hears the whisper of waves against a phantom hull and knows the Dreadnought awaits him in another form.</p>
</details>

The Captain thinks its true.

<details><summary><u>Louie's Memory #4: The First Hunt</u></summary>
<p><i>Abandoned Manor, Western Borderlands, Age 20</i></p>
<p>The memory pulses with nervous energy as Louie clutches a silver-tipped spear, following Van Richten through the shadowed corridors of a decaying manor house. Months of training have prepared them for this moment-their first hunt alongside the legendary monster hunter.</p>
<p>Their quarry: a nosferatu that has been feeding on the already weakened population of a remote G'hennan village. Van Richten's whispered instructions compete with the pounding of Louie's heart.</p>
<p>The memory slows at the crucial moment-the vampire lunging from darkness, Van Richten knocked aside, and Louie suddenly alone against the snarling creature. As razor-sharp claws descend, Louie instinctively channels divine energy not into healing but into their weapon.</p>
<p>The memory captures perfect stillness as the energized spear connects, the nosferatu's expression of surprise mirroring Louie's own. In this moment of triumph and terror, they discover that their forbidden divine magic-always used for healing-can become a weapon against unnatural darkness.</p>
<p>The memory ends with Van Richten's approving nod and sly grin.</p>
</details>

Louie thinks its real and is annoyed at lack of silver weapons. 

<details><summary><u>Dennis' Memory #4: The Council's Warning</u></summary>
<p>Dennis watches from the shadows as S stands before the Elven High Council. The memory thrums with tension as councilors with ancient faces regard S with increasing concern.</p>
<p>"Your experiments push beyond safety," says the eldest, her crown of silver leaves catching the light. "The barriers between worlds are not to be trifled with."</p>
<p>"The illithid threat grows," S argues passionately. "Conventional magics will not save us!"</p>
<p>"Your familiar documents everything," another councilor notes, gesturing toward Dennis. "Ask him what he's observed about your changing nature."</p>
<p>The memory freezes on S's face turning toward Dennis-expectant, commanding-and Dennis's first significant choice to speak truth rather than loyalty: "The magic is changing you, S. Sometimes you speak to voices I cannot hear."</p>
<p>The betrayal in S's eyes burns like acid, but beneath it lurks something worse-a flash of inhuman calculation.</p>
</details>

Dennis thinks its plausible.

### Round 5

<details><summary><u>Horus Memory #5: The Lover's Farewell</u></summary>
<p>Starlight illuminates Lyra's face as she packs her belongings. After years as Horus' companion and fellow chronomancer, she can no longer follow his darkening path. "Your hatred has become a temporal anchor," she says, touching his cheek one final time. "You're no longer changing time - you're becoming trapped by it."  She bends down and pets Gary.  The memory aches with the moment he chooses his vendetta over love, watching her walk away rather than abandoning his quest.</p>
</details>

Horus thinks the relationship is bullshit, but they were probably a close friend/companion. At lease he has Gary.

<details><summary><u>The Captain's Memory #5: The Crossing</u></summary>
<p>The memory begins in disorienting fragments-the sensation of falling, then weightlessness. Colors drain away as the halfling captain finds himself standing on misty shores beside a spectral version of the Dreadnought, its sails tattered yet somehow more magnificent.</p>
<p>A figure waits on the gangplank. Her face remains hidden behind a white porcelain mask, revealing nothing yet somehow conveying both solemn purpose and ancient wisdom.</p>
<p>"Am I...?" the captain begins.</p>
<p>"Yes," the figure answers. "But your journey continues."</p>
<p>The captain sees if he is still sliced in half from where the fatal blow landed, feeling only wholeness. "My crew?"</p>
<p>"Live still, mourning you." The figure gestures across a vast gray sea where drifting lights move like lost fireflies. "But these souls need a captain more."</p>
<p>The halfling studies the phantom ship, understanding dawning. "The Dreadnought sails even here?" "It sails especially here. Vessels of purpose transcend realms."</p>
<p>The mists parted as the Raven Queen guides the halfling captain deeper into her realm. They walked along an obsidian path that materialized beneath their feet with each step, luminescent particles drifting upward like inverse snowfall.</p>
<p>"Your vessel knew many storms," she said, her voice echoing from everywhere and nowhere at once. "And you never abandoned those in your care."</p>
<p>The captain nodded, still adjusting to the weightlessness of his new form. "A captain serves his ship and crew."</p>
<p>They reached a circular platform where other spectral vessels were moored-ships of every design from across the ages, their captains standing at attention as the Raven Queen passed. Some nodded respectfully at the halfling, recognizing a new addition to their solemn brotherhood.</p>
<p>The Raven Queen stopped before a pool of still, black water that reflected not their forms but countless faces-souls adrift in the spaces between worlds.</p>
<p>"There are many who die far from home," she explained, gesturing toward the reflections. "Lost at sea, in forgotten caves, on distant battlefields. Their passage is interrupted, their journey incomplete." Her mask tilted toward him. "They require someone who understands what it means to be lost, yet found again."</p>
<p>She extended her hand, and a silver coin materialized on her palm, its face bearing a raven in flight. "Will you serve as one of my ferryman in my fleet? Guide the lost to where they must go? Some to judgment, some to rest, some to become something new."</p>
<p>The halfling studied the coin, then looked to his spectral ship. The Dreadnought's sails caught an unfelt wind, as if eager for its new purpose.</p>
<p>"I've sailed treacherous waters before, my lady," he said, taking the coin. As his fingers closed around it, the metal sank into his palm, leaving a silvery mark like a sailor's tattoo.</p>
<p>The Raven Queen placed a hand upon his shoulder, and the captain felt a surge of connection-to the ship, to the souls waiting passage, to the very currents of death itself.</p>
<p>"The living mourn what they've lost," she said, "but we honor what remains. Remember this when the mists grow thick and the way seems uncertain."</p>
<p>When the captain steps aboard, the ship resonates with recognition. The deck beneath his feet feels more real than the world around him. Running his hands along the spectral wheel, he whispers, "Well old girl, seems we've got a new route to chart."</p>
<p>The memory captures his first command in death-"Unfurl the sails!"-and the surprising joy in his eyes as the Dreadnought responds, cutting through the mists toward souls in need of passage.</p>
</details>

The Captain thinks it’s all true and spicy. 

<details><summary><u>Louie's Memory #5: The Trial of the Scorching Sands: Louie's Memory with Ezmerelda</u></summary>
<p>The memory swirls within the orb, shimmering with golden light that mimics the merciless sun of Har'Akir's endless deserts. As Louie touches the smooth surface, the fragment comes alive... Har'Akir, Western Burial Grounds, Two Years After Meeting Van Richten</p>
<p>The memory begins with Louie's webbed feet burning against the scorching sands outside an ancient, half-buried tomb. His amphibian skin, normally slick with moisture, feels painfully dry despite the protective salves Ezmerelda had applied that morning. The grung stays close to the shadow of the Vistani hunter, who moves with practiced stealth along the weathered stone walls. "Stay alert, little friend," Ezmerelda whispers, her eyes scanning the horizon where heat ripples distort the landscape. "The guardian will sense us soon."</p>
<p>The memory pulses with Louie's mingled fear and determination. They had tracked a soul-devouring mummy across three settlements, following a trail of desiccated victims.</p>
<p>Ezmerelda pauses, pulling one of her hidden daggers from beneath her colorful scarf. She looks down at Louie with rare vulnerability in her eyes.</p>
<p>"The hieroglyphs mention a curse of thirst," she explains, gesturing toward symbols carved into the doorway. "Once we enter, water becomes poison until the guardian is defeated."</p>
<p>The memory trembles with the weight of this revelation. For a grung, whose very survival depends on moisture, such a curse is practically a death sentence. Ezmerelda kneels down, her usually stern face softening.</p>
<p>"I would understand if you wait here," she offers."</p>
<p>Louie weighing the situation decides to continue forward. The memory follows them into the stifling darkness of the tomb, where ancient traps and animated guardians test their combined skills. Ezmerelda's brilliant tactical mind and combat prowess complement Louie's divine magic. When they finally confront the mummy lord in the central chamber, Louie's radiant energy shields them from its death curse while Ezmerelda executes the precise ritual needed to bind the creature.</p>
<p>As the mummy falls, crumbling to dust, Louie collapses from dehydration. The memory swirls with feverish images of Ezmerelda carrying his small form back through the desert, her normally stoic face etched with worry as she whispers Vistani healing charms.</p>
<p>Days later, recovering in a cool oasis tent, Louie awakens to find Ezmerelda documenting their encounter in a journal reminiscent of Van Richten's famous guides.</p>
<p>The memory ends with Ezmerelda placing a small silver amulet in Louie's webbed hand-a token bearing the symbol of Har'Akir's ancient river goddess.</p>
<p>"For your bravery," she says simply. "Van Richten would be proud. I know I am."</p>
<p>In this moment, Louie realizes he's no longer merely Van Richten's student or Ezmerelda's temporary companion, but a monster hunter in his own right-one whose unique nature and divine gifts make him not a liability, but an irreplaceable ally in the endless battle against darkness.</p>
</details>

Louie thinks it might of happened, possible more than he did with Van Richten. He doesn’t place his worth on Ezmerelda or Van Richten. He doesn’t worship them but appreciate them. The situation he experienced as a kid with his divine magic just encourages questions and understanding rather than self worth issues. 

# I hope you read *EVERY* *DAMN* *WORD!*

As the last memory is absorbed, they click together, forming a veil of green light. Trapped within the light, we see the Revellians we have come to save.  On the far side of the veil, psychic parasites attack!

# Tune in next week folks, for the next gripping installment!