---
layout: post
title:  "Session 40 - Lamordia!"
date:   2025-08-31 15:13:39 +1100
categories: jekyll update
---
# Cleaning up loose ends.

First, the party heads to the farm of Cletus' family, and finds the Cletus is alive and well, despite several members of the party having witnessed his death.  Surprising, but not as surprising as finding that his Mum is at least an 11th level Bard, Cleric or Druid - because she serves us a [Heroes' Feast](https://scottsedgwick.github.io/MagicItems/spells.html#heroes-feast).

Rusty and Dennis travel back to Bluetspur to deliver several crates of Rings of Sustenance to Villy G the God-Brain.  We ask him about Xal-Ityth, but he's gone to ground and not on Villy G's radar any more.  He does give Rusty a [+3 All-Purpose Tool](https://scottsedgwick.github.io/MagicItems/magic-items.html#all-purpose-tool), and he gives Dennis a real pair of [Gloves of Soul Catching](https://scottsedgwick.github.io/MagicItems/magic-items.html#gloves-of-soul-catching), which is nice.

The Captain spends some time working with his crew aboard the Dreadnaught, restoring their morale and polishing their skills.  During this period, his Arc-Light Phoenix egg hatches, and he gets a new parrot!

Louie is informed that the Muharans have taken our salt factory, and keep beating up our workers if they try to go back.

Horus has a chat with Gary and finds out that - surprise! - he's not too keen on dying.  Training Montage! Given that he doesn't like dying, we remedy that by killing him a bunch of times, until he learns a new skill.  Now he has a reaction which he can use to nullify an attack.  So as long as he is only attacked once per round, he's immune to damage!

# That's <i>my</i> salt factory!

Muharans are occupying Louie and Rusty's salt factory, and they won't give it back.  The party has been slightly educated as to the unwritten limits of the confrontation, and so far, nobody has been killed - just roughed up.  This sounds like a job for The Captain and his crew of miscreants!  They amuse themselves beating on Muharans with billy clubs, and then retreating to their ship when the Muharans rally.  Turns out Muharans can't swim. Heh.  While this distraction is going on, Rusty sends Minion sneaking in to the factory, where - through Minion - Rusty casts Animate Object (his shiny new spell!) on critical parts of the factory infrastructure, which then get up and walk out.  This shuts the factory down.

This does not convince the Muharans to leave, oddly.  Rusty decides to do some more research in Muharan psychology and has a chat with Esmerelda, who lived in Hara'kir for some time.  She informs him that the Muharan people are a theocracy, led by a high priestess.  They adhere to the tenets of Mahat:

* Truth
* Balance
* Order
* Harmony
* Law
* Morality
* Justice

Armed with this new information, Rusty communicates with Aki, the leader of the Muharans, from the safety of The Dreadnaught anchored offshore, via Wit, whose telepathic network range is 600 feet.  This helpfully gets around the problem that Aki apparently can't speak Common.

There was a long discussion where it quickly became obvious that Muharan philosophy was grievously flawed and internally inconsistent.  Nevertheless, an accord was reached, where the Muharans went back to Hara'kir and Rusty and Louie traded salt from the salt factory for titanium sands and medicinal herbs.  Rusty is now starting to think more about large-scale titanium refining and production, but he's going to do it where the Muharans can't see, because those people are fools.

Side-effects of the deal is that we get about 60% of the Revallians to migrate to Hara'kir to work the mineral sands mining operation.  The rest move to Candlecross, and we convince the single wax maker in Mordent to move there too, to act as an industry leader to bootstrap the wax making industry.

While we were doing this, The Captain took the Dreadnaught on a Kraken hunting expidition, which was successful.  Calamari feast!

As the first payment on the deal, Rusty gets 12kg of Titanium.  I don't think Ethan is aware of how light Titanium is.  12kg doesn't sound like much, but it's 2.5 litres of metal.  Alloyed correctly, Rusty should get 2.75 litres of Ti-6Al-4V.  That's the strongest titanium alloy, as well as being corrosion resistant, and we all know Rusty doesn't make anything second grade.

We finish up our stay in Mordent with another feast from the arch-druid Mrs Cletus.  Another [Heroes Feast](https://scottsedgwick.github.io/MagicItems/spells.html#heroes-feast) all around!

# Sailing the Sea of Sorrows

The Captain takes us all aboard the Dreadnaught, and sets sail into the Sea of Sorrows, charting a course for Lamordia.  Esmerelda, fount of weird knowledge that she is, has told us a bit about the domain.  It is a place that scoffs at the superstition of Gods and Magic, and instead turns to science and logic to make sense of, and manipulate, the world.

After a few hours sailing in the Dreadnaught, the mists close in, and swirl about the ship.  The water goes from fresh brine, to a thick, black, oily sludge.  Shadowy tentacles emerge from the mire, grasping at the ship and pulling one sailor overboard.  We pause to remember Ortego, a brave and worthy sailor who met his end too soon.  Anyway.

A loud "CAW" echoes over the ocean, and we see a huge Raven, wearing a mask, emerge from the mists and circle the Dreadnaught.  Three times it circumnavigates the ship, and with each pass the shadowy tentacles are pulled further back away from our trusty vessel.  Upon completing the third circuit, a sense of protection falls over the ship.  The Raven flies away, and the mists recede, revealing the shores of Lamoria.

# Interlude of Exposition (I)

Life is cheap in Lamordia. As far as the land's esteemed scholars are concerned, the spark that animates flesh is merely the result of chemical accidents and the proper formulas. Golems, homunculi, and other constructed beings groan to life to support a populace desperate to survive in this frigid realm. Lamordia is a frigid land of barren mountains, frozen swamps, and icy seas. Its ruler, Baron von Aubrecker, hasn't left his estate for years, though he issues proclamations and sends agents to collect taxes.

Frozen bogs and glacial expanses surround Lamordia's smog- and machinery-filled cities. Unpredictable blizzards plague the long winters, and the chill summers last only a few weeks.

Claiming to work for the greater food, innovators and scholars push beyond the limits of mortality. Their scalpels turn scientific pursuits into butchery, as their experiments reach beyond what is necessary for health to grasp after the secrets of existence. Flesh is Lamordia's most abundant natural resource, exploited for both desperate purposes and vain ambitions.

You find yourselves on the Dreadnaught looking at a domain of stark contrasts. Featuring windswept coastlines battered by icy waves and brooding forests where ancient trees claw at the sky. The landscape ranges from foggy settlements to mountainous regions. In the far distance you see Gothic architecture. 

Lamordia is perpetually shrouded in mist and maintains a cold, harsh climate that shapes both its terrain and its people.

The Dreadnaught sails into the port of Ludendorf.

# Welcome to Lamordia!  Take off your shoes and bend over!

The Captain is immediately met by the Harbour Master, who informs him that every person aboard the ship will need to be registered with the registration office before nightfall.  He also checks everyone for lycanthropy, we think - it involves holding a silver coin.  Nobody screamed, so it seems we all passed.  We all then head off to the registration office, and have to make CON saves on the way to not be choked by the pollution.  Except Dennis, who doesn't breathe.

# Interlude of Exposition (II)

The city of Ludendorf is a morass of steam-powered factories operating at the behest of morally bankrupt barons. Boiling sewers and team tunnels thread the city's foundations, heating cramped tenements and powering the cranes needed by the city's fleet. These ironclad, ice-breaking whaling vessels dare the Sea of Secrets to bring back massive beasts that provide vital food and fuel for the city.

Ensconced in the city's heart, Ludendorf University supports many local industries. Funded by corrupt entrepreneurs and wealthy but immoral benefactors, the university's vast curriculum boats esoteric programs such as alchemical combustion, chemical sentience, and speculative anatomy. The sciences reign here, and students and faculty alike push to discover technologies that will net lucrative contracts from the city's wealthy overlords. The university continually needs new subjects for experiments and hires volunteers or pays individuals for "flesh rights" - ownership of their cadavers once they die.

The people you pass on the streets are bundled in thick coats and cloaks. They move with purpose, not lingering in the open air longer than necessary. Most give you curious glances but don't approach or offer greetings.

Smoke rises from many chimneys, and the smell of burning wood mixes with the salt air from the harbor. Gas lamps line the main thoroughfares, already lit despite it being daytime due to the overcast conditions and thick fog that seems to be a constant presence here.

As you are making your way to the registration office you are intaking the culture and propoganda of Ludendorf, you see Lamordians with newspapers with big bold headlines, as well as hearing a town crier shouting a myriad of different statements.

# Registration is not cheap, and the exchange rate is weird.

The registration office takes our biometrics, and requires a hefty payment per person, in the local Lamordian currency, which are silver coins.  We mostly have gold coins, and the exchange rate is something like 4 gold coins to 3 silver coins.  Rusty had some actual silver pieces, and the exchange rate for those was one-to-one.  This opens up opportunities for arbitrage if we can open reliable travel.

The registrar also helpfully explains the local reputation-based social standing system for us.

<details>
<summary>Reputation Registration System</summary>
<p>The Registration attendant mentions that it's a reputation-based social registration system which determines their access to various city services, benefits and areas.</p>
<p>Helping the people of Lamordia will get you status, each stamped writ from a nominator/sponsor will contribute to your standing and allow you more benefits.</p>
<p><b>Initial Benefits include:</b>
  <ol>
    <li>Market Entry Permit - Permission to enter commercial districts during designated hours (5am to 6am and 5pm - 6pm) Can barter with most merchants.</li>
    <li>Community Bulletin Board Access - Information about job opportunities, housing, and basic city announcements. (Can only enter restricted districts if you have a copy of the notice.)</li>
    <li>Basic potential medical care for wound treatment and disease identification (no advanced procedures or medications)</li>
    <li>On the list for potential shelter access in case of emergency.</li>
    <li>Public Warming Station Access - Permission to use heated communal areas during the harshest winter conditions (limited to 2 hours per day)</li>
    <li>Basic Work Assignment - Eligibility for entry-level manual labor positions (street cleaning, snow removal, basic construction)</li>
    <li>Lose your flesh rights if you die and it’s dedicated to the University of Ludendorf. </li>
  </ol>
</p>
<p><b>You can submit a writ to gain two sponsored benefit such as:</b>
  <ol>
    <li>Permission to enter commercial district any time of the day.</li>
    <li>Requesting an Audience with the Baron.</li>
    <li>Can attend ballet theatre and local amenities. </li>
    <li>Access Research Thesis's from the University.</li>
    <li>Access to University Laboratory Facilities - Use specialized equipment for personal research or experiments under supervision.</li>
    <li>Research Grant Applications - Eligibility to apply for funding for approved scientific endeavors.</li>
    <li>Licensed Trading Privileges - Legal permission to engage in certain restricted commerce (especially body parts/medical supplies) and have Authorization to purchase restricted chemicals and experimental compounds.</li>
    <li>Steam-Powered Transportation Access - Priority booking on mechanical conveyances and heated public transport during harsh winters.</li>
    <li>Land Ownership - Discounts on various city permits and licensing requirements.</li>
    <li>Legal Consultation Services - Access to city-approved legal advisors for navigating Lamordia's complex regulations.</li>
    <li>Medical Priority Status - Faster access to legitimate medical care.</li>
    <li>Retain your flesh rights and are placed in the authority of whomever you choose. </li>
    <li>Emergency Shelter Access - Guaranteed accommodations during severe winter storms and early warning for any emergencies or evacuations. </li>
    <li>Body Modification Services - Access to trendy surgical enhancements popular among the upper classes.</li>
  </ol>
</p>
</details>

The registrar gives us directions to the public notice board where we can find jobs.  We thank them, and head there.

# Community Service

At the notice board, we find a range of jobs.

<details><summary>Lighthouse Keeper Wanted</summary>
<p><b>Pay:</b> 30 Gold Marks per month + lodging</p>
<p>Isle of Agony Lighthouse requires a new keeper.  Previous three keepers have abandoned their posts claiming "unnatural sounds" and "impossible footprints in the sand".  Must be of rational mind, dismissive of folklore.  Strong constitution required for harsh maritime conditions.</p>
<p><b>Contact:</b> Harbour Master Brennan</p>
<p><b>Note:</b> Applicants spreading tales of "sea monsters" will be dismissed immediately.</p>
</details>

<details><summary>Clock Repair Urgently Needed</summary>
<p><b>Payment:</b> 15 Gold Marks</p>
<p>Family Timepiece stopped at sunset three days ago. Cannot find local clockmaker.</p>
<p><b>Critical:</b> Must be repaired before sundown today. PLEASE, I BEG YOU!</p>
</details>

<details><summary>WTB Strange Specimens</summary>
<p>Variable Prices</p>
<p>Dr. Amelia Gross, village physician, seeks unusual biological samples for scientific study. Will pay premium for specimens showing "anatomical impossibilities" or "surgical modifications".</p>
<p>Recent acquisitions include: three headed fish (15 gold), humanoid bone with metal fittings (25 gold), and preserved tissue that regenerates when exposed to electrical current (50 gold).</p>
</details>

<details><summary>Escort Bodyguard Services Required</summary>
<p><b>Payment:</b> 50% Discounted Goods</p>
<p>Merchant family seeks protection during travel to Neufurchtenburg</p>
<p>Recent reports of "massive footprints" near mountain passes. Must be skilled with conventional weapon.</p>
</details>

<details><summary>A Clockwork Orange Heart</summary>
<p>Famed director Otto Van Knorpel and his wife, prima ballerina Fraulein Helga Blut, unveil a glittering pageant where sating meets steel and the heart keeps time with a hidden key.</p>
<p>Opening night engagement - Limited seating - Doors at 7:00 - Curtain at 7:30. Grand Theatre Ludendorf - Orchestra, Dress Circle, and Private Boxes available.</p>
<p>Credits: Directed by Otto Van Knorpel - Starring Fraulein Helga Blut - Featuring the Automation Ushers of the Royal Aisle.</p>
<p>Costumes and apparatus by the Alchemical Workshop of House Knorpel - Live Orchestra and Mechanical Augmentation.</p>
<p>A Limited Run Presented by The Ludendorf Society for Theatrical Advancement.</p>
</details>

The party picks up the Clock Repair task, and the Bodyguard task.

## Rusty and Cootes roving repair.

We head over to the address on the clock repair task, and arrive outside a house only to hear hysterical wailing coming from within.  With some trepidation, we knock on the door.  The wailing instantly stops, and a lady opens the door.  We introduce ourselves (by this stage, Rusty has a firm grip on the local dialect) and tell her we are here to repair the clock.  She is overjoyed.

The clock in question is a Grandfather clock.  Rusty is suspicious - this is a pretty simple clock, why hasn't anyone been able to fix it?  He casts Detect Magic on it, which does nothing.  Not that there _isn't_ magic on the clock - the spell just doesn't work. That's weird.  It also raises the suspicion of the housekeeper, who asks what he is doing.  Rusty covers up magnificently by informing her that there are sensors built in to his gauntlets which can run diagnostics for him.  She seems to be mollified.

Rusty then treats the clock as a purely mundane device, and walks Ethan through the correct way to dismantle, diagnose, repair and service a Grandfather clock.  The problem was a corroded gear, which tells Rusty that the local clockmakers are morons, but after fixing that he also takes the time to clean all the other corrosion susceptible parts (primarily the main drive spring) and give them all a good coat of lubrication so this doesn't happen again.  I mean, that's _why_ clock gears are bronze.  It is naturally corrosion resistant, and self-lubricating!  Lamordia has not impressed Rusty so far.

The lady of the house is overjoyed with our work, and in addition to paying the agreed amount of 15 Gold Marks (why are they called that?  They're silver!), also provides us with a writ.  We're building a reputation!

## Caravan guards

The party then heads to the market.  We can only enter because we have the work order, allowing us to be there.  On the way, we surreptitiously check out how our magic is going.  It is affecting different party members differently.  Dennis, Cletus and The Captain are basically unaffected.  Louie, Rusty and Horus are feeling unwell to varying degrees.  A little investigation reveals that "magic" does not work in Lamordia, but "science" does.  For example, Louie cannot "Divine Smite" and more - if he tries to, it instead happens as some sort of electrical charge, now doing electrical damage instead of radiant damage.  If we put sufficient effort into working out ways to express our magic in technological ways, we will be able to use it, but it won't be "magic".

Rusty is happy as a dog with two tails.

In the market, we find Hans Der Bahnhof, who is setting up his caravan, getting ready to depart.  The Captain hats to him and arranges for the party to provide security services for him for the trip to Neufurchtenburg.  He asks us if we have cold weather gear, and we do not.  For the low, low price of all of our money, he runs off and purchases three sets of cold weather gear for us, as well as one set of barding.  They are for Cletus, Louie and Horus, and the barding is for Raymond.  Rusty's armour is insulative enough.  I assume The Captain and Dennis will stay on the ship?

# The Long Arm of The Law

As we are agreeing to meet Hans early tomorrow to depart, a group of Helmed Horrors enter the market and make a beeline for the party.  They arrest The Captain on unspecified charges.  The Captain chooses to go along with them, and the party follows.  The Captain is apparently being arrested on suspicion of murder, on the basis that the word "Captain" has been found written in blood at a murder scene, and The Captain is the only person currently in Ludendorf that goes by that name.  Tenuous at best.

We are taken to the crime scene - the investigative processes of local law enforcement are not sophisticated.  There we find a dead body, and on the wall - in blood - is a hand print and the message "Captain, he's hiding under the identity of Dr Yitthalx."  The body is of a well known local lunatic who has always maintained that Gods are real.  On the other wall is a sword and a shield.  Various members of the party recognize the heraldry on the shield, it is the holy symbol of Torm, God of Justice.  None of us are dumb enough to tell the local coppers that, though.

We tell the police when we arrived in Ludendorf, which they verify by talking to the Harbourmaster, and what we have been doing since, which they verify by talking to the clerk at the registration office, the lady with the clock, and Hans.  Our names are thus cleared.

We do notice that "Yitthalx" is an anagram of "Xal-Ityth", and we ask the local constabulary to keep an eye our for him.  They tell us that Dr Yitthalx is on the register as being in Neufurchtenburg, which is cool, because that's where we are going.

# Here endeth the Session

But we are given some infodump about domain effects:

Realm of Science Over Magic: Spellcasting focuses are rendered useless in Lamordia. Magic functions more like alchemy, requiring specific material components to work properly. This reflects the domain's fundamental rejection of supernatural explanations in favor of scientific ones, making traditional spellcasters particularly vulnerable to the domain's unique horrors.

* Spell casting focuses are useless as Magic doesn’t exist here, only science.
* Spellslots don’t get used ever.
* For spells with no material component, they have to purchase them as consumables from a vendor or source them in the wilds of Lamorida.
* Magic is treated as alchemy and you need to source the physical material components to try to replicate the equivalent.
* They can go to vendors and ask for components like bat guano or request to find some in their travels. Reagent bundle for ability to cast each spell once. (cost equal to a spell scroll: 25 gp for 1st level, 250 gp for 2nd, 500 gp for 3rd, etc.).
* When Casting the spell as alchemy, they need to prepare the alchemical concoction by making a nature check of 13 + spell level or it fails.
* Inherent Magic Weapons and Armour that add modifiers is allowed but no actual effects or abilities that would indicate spell use is allowed.
* Ki works the same as it’s considered willpower based on meditation. Divine Smite works but is outright refused as magical phenomena and is considered a form of Electromagnetic discharge.
* Scientific Superstition: Both having a clock that stops ticking and is not fixed by midnight and Winding a clock after sundown curses a household.

Rusty gets to work modifying his tools to be able to work with optimum efficiency in the local conditions.