---
layout: post
title:  "Session 27 - Birthday Bash"
date:   2025-02-02 15:13:39 +1100
categories: jekyll update
---
# A ~~Grimlock~~ Mind Flayer city

Before the party spreads a vast cavern, smelling faintly of mold and loam.  I think the loam smell comes from the dirt and fungi, and the mold smell comes from the Grimlocks.  A "city" stands before us.  I say city, but there's only one building over 2 stories, and it's pretty spread out for truly urban living.  More like a jumped-up hamlet with one decent building in the middle.

Speaking of which, that building is only over 2 stories because of the big tentacle sticking out of it.  It's like sticking a huge flagpole on your skyscraper to be the "tallest".  You're not fooling anyone, and just drawing attention to your need to compensate.  I mean, a tentacle?  Could it be more obvious?

The party sneaks carefully into the village.  As we approach we hear a rhythmic clicking sound, and shadowy figures loom out of the dim light which gradually resolve to Grimlocks.  Ethan described them as graceful, but I think that's a bit of a stretch.  Bats can see with sound too, but they're gawky as shit.  Having seen a Grimlock, they look like a blind mutant cross between bald dwarves and hill giants who were in the loo when the brains were handed out.  But I digress.

As the party is passed by a group of Grimlocks, we all roll stealth, but apparently not well enough.  The heads of the Grimlocks turn toward us, but then they pass on without comment.  Which raises the question - why do they turn their heads?  They have no eyes.  The only reasons to do that are either if they have been acclimated to do it because they live in a primarily sighted community and do it to fit in (they don't), or they do it to align their ears for better echo-location.  But if they's evolved to the point that their _eyes have atrophied away_, then they would have easily developed directable ears, removing the need to turn their heads.  Even rabbits have directable ears, and they _don't even use sonar!_

Anyhow, having been spotted once, Rusty is a bit peeved and uses his Ring of Spell Storing to cast Invisibility on himself.  And he flies, so as not to make any noise of footsteps.  Won't help against non-magical blindsight, but it's the thought that counts.

A Mind Flayer rounds the corner.  Horus goes into an absolute tizzy, as he has _just now_ remembered that Mind Flayers have 30'R sentience sense, and it's close enough for it to activate!  The entire party dives in different directions for cover, except Dennis and Rusty.  Rusty holds Dennis' just hand, and Dennis picks his feet up off the floor.  He's flying, but it _technically_ turns him into something that Rusty is carrying. They've obviously done this before. The Mind Flayer doesn't notice any of us, but it does notice a Grimlock walking past. "How long was your last shift?", it asks.  "27", says the Grimlock.  I think the assumption was that it was using hours as the unit of measurement, but that was never confirmed.  Whatever, the Mind Flayer seemed appeased, and they both went on their ways.

Vilgax says:

> I think Mirg's house is this way.

The party continues to stealth our way through the town.  The atmosphere is supposed to be foreboding and alien - we see odd architecture, the strange tentacle building, and obscure crafting areas.  Everybody ignores all that entirely and looks for stuff to steal.  The Captain spots a Grimlock dragging a cart of gems back from the mine and nicks a ruby off it.  Again, it looks like the Grimlock notices, but doesn't care.  Rusty watches to see where the cart goes, which is, of course, the tentacle building. We follow Vilgax as he approaches a house on the outskirts of the village.  Vilgax knocks, and there is a panicked scuffle from inside, including the breaking of glassware.  The door opens a crack, and an eye doesn't peer out.  Honestly, why open the door if you can't see?  The figure says "Who's there?  What do you want with Mirg?"  Then he peers about (again, why?) and sniffs the air (finally, some logic).  "You're not Mind Eaters."

Dennis replies with "Well, one of us is."

The Captain says "We have Villy G here, in da house."

Vilgax says:

> _Sigh_. Yes, Mirg, it's me, Vilgax. We have need of your skills to protect us.

# Grimlock Games

We enter Mirg's hovel with alacrity before any more Mind Flayers wander into view.  Mirg says he might help, but first he must check to see if we can see like Mirg sees. He asks a riddle: "As Mirg was travelling to Baldur's Gate, upon the road Mirg met seven liches; every lich had seven phylacteries; every phylactery had seven imps; every imp had seven soul coins. Soul coins, imps, phylacteries and liches - how many were travelling to Baldur's Gate?"

Horus gets very excited and squeaks "Oh, me, me.  I'm very good at riddles.  The answer is **one**! It was you, Mirg, you were the one travelling to Baldur's gate!"  Mirg also gets very excited and says that Horus also can see like Mirg, very good!  He will help.

The Captain and Rusty both spotted the foolishness of Mirg.  He did not state whether the liches and their caravans were travelling to or from Baldur's gate, so they may have needed to be included.  Also, the riddle specifically asked how many "Soul coins, imps, phylacteries and liches" were travelling to Baldur's gate, so even if they were all going the opposite way, the answer should have been zero.  Assuming that each lich group is indivisible, the answer could be anywhere from zero to 2,800 in groups of 400.  Mirg should never have counted himself at all.  However, both the Captain and Rusty were too clever to point out Mirg's foolishness, because we apparently needed his help for something.  Though Vilgax's endless side-quests were wearing thin - we were starting to suspect that he was trying to distract us from achieving our actual goal.

Mirg tells that party that he can help us, but to do so he needs a special crystal.  The crystal can be found deep in the mines, deep in the quarry.  Mirg needs to inhale the dust from the crystal, and it will give him visions that he can transform into tattoos that will protect us.  It is at this point that Rusty and The Captain realize that we have somehow signed on to enable some random cave dwellers crystal meth habit.  The Captain, due to his profession, is in principle in favour of the use of drugs, so he's fine with that.  Rusty figures it might be funny.

Mirg goes on to explain that there is a problem.  The Mind Flayers have placed a huge guardian creature in the quarry to protect their source of crystals.  So, the drug dealers have a Rottweiler protecting their stash, OK.  Mirg waxes lyrical about the horrors of the beast.  We get it Mirg, you're too scared to do it yourself.  We'll get your damn drugs.

Vilgax gets Mirg to calm down and make us some tea.  This takes a surprisingly long time - apparently the drugs have already caused significant deterioration of Mirg higher brain functions.  If he ever had any - he is a Grimlock.  In the meantime, the party is distracted by Mirg's young son, Rig, who coerces them into playing a game of indoor lawn bowls.  He doesn't seem to have a firm grasp of the rules, so he may have been getting into his Dad's stash.  Eventually the game winds down, and Louie has won.  He gets a small hearing aid.  It is a tiny magical item that does not require attunement, and if worn, grants +1 to Perception rolls.  Louie enlists Rusty's help to craft a headband so he can wear it, as he has no external ear flaps for it to hang off.

Vilgax is now chatting with Mirg over tea, and we get a slice of Mirg's back-sob-story. "Mirg is different from other Grimlock. The Mind Flayers took Mirg when he was small, experimented on him.  Now, when Mirg snorts the ~~fairy dust~~ crystal, he can take psionic pictures.  Mirg is able to resist the Mind Flayers control sometimes, and sometimes, through the ~~crack~~ crystal dust, he can pass that resistance to others."  It is noted at this point that Rusty has experience with psionic crystal from his backstory.  It's a real thing, not just a drug fueled hallucination of a broken down old cave troll.  Mirg continues: "The Mind Flayers use the Grimlocks like tools, to be used and discarded when they break.  We live in constant fear.  It was not always like this, though.  Mirg remembers a time - long ago, when he was but a little Grimlock.  A hero came, a shining knight that foretold of a time when we would be free of the Mind Flayers.  He was a Githyanki, and he rode with a companion.  Together, they fought the Mind Flayers, and briefly, the Grimlocks were free.  We fled the caverns toward a promised land, while the knight and his companion went deeper into the caverns, bringing the fight to the Elder Brains below.  It seems that they did not prevail - soon, the Mind Flayers returned, angrier and crueler than ever.  The Grimlocks were subjugated once more, and our lives are worse than ever."  Rusty asked where they were fleeing to in this benighted land.  Where did they think they could go that would be free of the Mind Flayers?  Mirg said that the knight told them to travel to the endless pit and climb inside, and they would be taken to a new world.

Sounds like a death cult to Rusty, but what does he know?

Mirg than talks more of the guardian creature in the depths.  It's largely more of the same, but he does introduce one more informative point - the creature sleeps for long periods between waking.  _Of course_ it is awake right now, though.  Mirg also expresses the belief that everything will be OK now, though, as Horus is going to go into the quarry to fix everything.  It transpires that Mirg thinks that Horus is the companion of the Githyanki knight from so long ago.  Horus panics about this (again), and starts to overthink how this could be.  Rusty suspects that Mirg is just a racist bastard and all Harendon look alike to him.  While Horus panics, the party comes to the conclusion that Gary is in fact the PC, and Horus is his familiar, and we address them in this manner from here on.  Horus' panicking was not in vain, however.  He gets himself into such a state that his hyperactivity translates to double actions in his next 5 turns of combat.

The Captain was, unsurprisingly, bored by all these goings on, and ends up in conversation with Rig.  The Captain plays Rock-Paper-Scissors with Rig in exchange for all his potions.  The Captain loses, and has to play hide and seek with Rig as punishment.  Rig runs out into the street while The Captain counts.  The Captain heads out to look for him.

Rusty notices that Rig's room is on fire.  He looks about and recognises a badly organised Alchemist lab when he sees one.  He also recognises the flame as coming from Alchemists Fire, so he's not stupid enough to pour water on it.  He leaves it be, knowing that once the Alchemists fire is exhausted, it will turn into a normal fire which will be easy to put out, but it is getting larger.  Rusty wets the desk around the fire with non-flammable mineral oil to keep the fire contained while he looks for some [BromoChloroDiFlouroMethane](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bromochlorodifluoromethane) (BCF) powder.  Once what BCF is and how you make it is explained to the DM, we notice a small mound of white powder to one side.  Rusty, being aware of the explosive flammability of many white powders (flour, sugar, cocaine), tests a small sample by dropping a tiny amount into a flame he exudes from his finger.  It passes through the fire unharmed.  Rusty then uses some more of it to extinguish the Alchemists fire.

Horus notices a scroll in Rig's room, covered in dots.  It's written in Braille, and after some confusion, it is decided that Braille is an encoding of Common, and thus resistant to Comprehend Languages. Horus leaves the pretty modern art where it lies.

# Grimlock booty

The Captain locates Rig by stepping on him, and in return, receives all the potions Rig has on him:

| Number | Potion Type      |
| ------ | ---------------- |
| 5      | Healing          |
| 4      | Greater Healing  |
| 3      | Superior Healing |
| 3      | Supreme Healing  |
| 1      | Speed            |

Rig then mutters in Thieves Cant "You ugly troll rat".  The Captain responds in kind, "Nice try kid.  You got some moves, though.  Here, have a sombrero."  Rig decides The Captain is the coolest person in the world, and they start to head back to the house.  On the way, they spy a patrol of Mind Flayers in the way.  Rig aims his slingshot over to the side, deep into the cave, and fires off a firework which explodes in the distance.  The Mind Flayers move off to investigate, and The Captain and Rig make it safely back to the house.  Once there, he gives The Captain the scroll of Greater Restoration, and The Captain gives it to Horus, after explaining what Braille is.  There is some hand-waving done to allow Horus to copy scrolls of spells that would normally be Cleric spells into his spell book, and in the process, convert them to Wizard spells for the purposes of preparation.  Within one hour, the spell is in Horus' book.  The Captain uses this time to craft a tower shield using Bigby's Benificent Bracelet's _Force Sculpture_ ability.

The quarry we need to enter is on the north side of the cavern, and Mirg warns us that the Mind Flayers are part of a hive mind - what one knows, they all know. This makes taking them out problematic.

# Tunnel adventures

As the party departs Mirg's house, Rusty overhears a psychic conversation in his local vicinity.  "What do you mean, you were studying?  _I_ was studying, you were just not paying attention!"  "You're not the boss of me!  We all have projects to work on, too."  "Well, we can't just have explosives going off for no reason that we don't know where they came from!  You all should be paying more attention"  "Us?  What about _you?_ You pay more attention".

Vilgax looks to Rusty and telepathically mutters "Morons."

The party successfully stealths to the quarry entrance.  There are a large number of Grimlocks moving through the area, taking gems and crystals out, taking empty carts in, and sporadically being whipped by the single Mind Flayer standing in the centre of the entrance.  We know it can sense sentience within 30' - there's no way to get past it.  It is distracted, though, interacting with an altar in the center of the area, and occasionally drawing psychic energy from it.  At the edges of the caverns are rusted iron cages holding more Grimlocks who are off shift.

The party comes up with a plan.

When the Mind Flayer is looking at the altar, and therefore away from us, Horus casts Hold Monster on it and freezes it in place.  Louie races forward (behind its field of view) and beats the hell out of it, killing it in one round.  At the same time, The Captain throws some rocks so they fall in the Mind Flayer's field of view, making it appear that there has been a localized cave-in to the hive mind.  He successfully convinces them that this was just a freak mining accident.

The party quickly enters the mine before other Mind Flayers come to see what happened.  The Captain filches some gems from the carts on the way in - he lifts 2 x 200GP diamonds, which he immediately gives to Horus to use as Greater Restoration components.  Louie grabs 5 x 30GP emeralds.

As the party travels deeper into the left hand branch of the mine, it gets darker, and the passage becomes more cramped.  Raymond has to climb into Louie's portable hole.  Rusty is thinking about jumping into the ship, but it never quite comes to that.  As we are crawling through a particularly tight space, Dennis and Horus are caught in a section as the roof starts to collapse.  Dennis grabs Horus' hand and attempts to shadow step out, but Horus wasn't expecting that and reflexively squirts grease over everything.  Regardless, they just manage to get clear before the falling rocks crush them.

It is now so dark that The Captain is walking into walls.  Horus grants him Darkvision to some ridiculous range.  The party notices a rotten egg smell, and Rusty explains that as long as they can still smell it, it isn't at dangerous levels.  If the smell slowly fades away, then that is OK - but if anyone suddenly cannot smell it, then the gas has built up to dangerous levels and we should get out.  Obviously he didn't go into quite enough detail, as Ethan apparently doesn't know that Sulphur Dioxide is non-flammable, and can actually be used as a fire extinguisher, it is so stable.  This will become important later.

As the party proceeds, it starts to get extremely cold.  Various heating options are implemented, all utilizing fire (except for Horus' cloak of rabbits), and there is a sudden flash, the rotten egg smell disappears, and everyone takes a pile of fire damage.  Because the Sulphur Dioxide explosively caught fire.  _Sigh_.  We are helpfully told that the smell of rotten eggs suddenly disappeared, so as per Rusty's instructions, we should be worried.  We heal up a bit and proceed onward, this time with The Captain using Mage Hand to hold an everlasting candle 30 feet in front of the party to set off any gas pockets.  It occasionally flares.

The Captain and Louis spot some odd formations in the rock, and upon further investigation it reveals a hidden passage, almost completely closed off by a boulder.  Louis, The Captain and Raymond working together manage to shift it, and we then ignore the hidden passage to continue down the main one.  

Just kidding, _of course_ we investigate the hidden passage!  Everyone knows that is where the good loot is!  After traveling down it for a long time, we come upon a chamber with nothing of value in it whatsoever.  Just a stupid statue that looks a bit like "old" Horus (and some rando Githyanki), some writing on the wall that The Captain left himself (1242. Don't trust the first Bane. Trust the second Bane. Don't eat any food. Death to all Weresharks), and a boombox behind the statue that Rusty left as a prank in some distant past.  This is supposed to intrigue the characters with time travel shenanigans, but it is overshadowed by the utter lack of loot and nobody cares.  We go back to the main passage that we should have gone down in the first place.

About 250' further along the tunnel, the earth slopes up until it meets the ceiling, blocking the passage. Strange sounds come from it. Rusty tries to Mold Earth it, but it doesn't work - which means that the earth is, in some way, magical. Horus steps up with Dispel Magic, and the earth in the passageway vanishes to expose an Earth Elemental and an Air Elemental making woo-woo noises and looking amused, until they look suddenly surprised and then embarrassed.  Horus takes a shot at Persuading them to let us pass.  Louie follows that up with a solid attempt an Intimidation.  Blanks looks.  Rusty then translates what was just said, and one of the rolls must have worked because they sheepishly step aside and allow us to proceed.

# Rumble in the Tunnel

The tunnel opens out into a massive cavern, with wind blowing out of it rhythmically.  We look up.  Then further up.  The cavern is almost filled with a Tarrasque, which would be bad enough, but this is a _special_ Tarrasque, with tentacles and brain patches.  It is 50' high and 70' long, and it doesn't look like there is anywhere in the cavern that would be out of its reach - which is good for not prompting opportunity attacks, but less good for getting out of its way.  Horus recalls a legend that the Mind Flayers had, at some point, come across a Crown of Domination.  The Elder Brains had used its powers to dominate a Tarrasque, and then subjected it to horrible experimentation, resulting in an enhanced force of nature, a legendary Tarrasque under their control that had most of the common weaknesses of a Tarrasque removed - it had mental powers, and ranged attacks, it was better in every way.  So, of course, they used this absolutely priceless asset to fill a random hole somewhere nobody has ever heard of.  Obvious, really.  Anyway, Horus theorizes that if it can be significantly weakened, then - and only then - Banishment should work on it.  For a while, anyway.  The Captain notices, written on the wall in Thieves Cant: "Oh Captain, my Captain, use sonic attacks."  He relays this information to the party.

Initiative! The Tarrasque goes first because it has the epic boon "Feat of Alacrity".  Rusty is second with 26. Horus comes next with 23, then The Captain with 23 as well, then Dennis with 20, Louie and Raymond on 16, and Vilgax with an abysmal 8.  It _would_ be cause for ridicule, if not for Gary's absolutely unexplainable 2.  Honestly, should he even _get_ a turn?

At the start of combat, Rusty is already invisible, and Raymond has his table out.

## Round 1

The Tarrasque opens with a slam attack - an area of effect attack that hits the entire party. Only The Captain makes his DEX save, so in addition to damage, everyone except him is now prone.  Then a claw attack on Dennis - critical hit! Except Rusty Silvery Barbs him, and while Dennis is still hit, at least it's not instakill stuff.  The Captain attempts a reaction attack (Sentinel) but misses.  Then another claw attack on Rusty, then a bite on Horus.  Horus makes his save to avoid being swallowed.  Lastly the Tarrasque fires tail spikes at Dennis (hit), Rusty (miss), Vilgax (hit) and Louie (hit).

Rusty picks himself up off the ground and runs as far as he has movement left, then releases Minion who goes further, turns back to fire Shatter at the Tarrasque, and then keeps going until he is behind a pillar.

Horus leaps an astonishing distance, behind _Minion's_ pillar - get your own hiding spot!  Then heals himself.

Vilgax uses a Legendary Action to cast some sort of healing spirit spell, which starts to heal up the party a bit.

The Captain fires one of his Dreadnaught armour piercing arrows and does impressive damage on the first hit - but his second hit misses.  Except Orianna helps him, and it hits!  Nice!  Then he drinks his Potion of Speed and has another go.  Another hit!

Dennis is forced by some sort of mind control to bite Vilgax, which he does.  Then he gets his turn, and stabs the Tarrasque, whereupon we find that it is immune to both poison and stun.  So fuck Dennis, right?  Never mind, he keeps hitting and finishes his turn riding the Tarrasque like a mechanical bull.

Louie casts Magical Weapon on Raymond's prosthetic teeth.  Why did we get the table out?  Anyway, Louie and Raymond then strike away at the Tarrasque, with some hits and some misses.

Vilgax heals himself and then casts Bless on the party.

Gary flies to about midway between Horus and The Captain, and casts Intellect Fortress on them, then flees to the back of the cavern and pretends that he does not exist.

## Round 2

The Tarrasque regenerates 60HP.  Then it hits Dennis for 19 HP + 4 HP Psychic damage.  Dennis will have to figure out how to do that. Then it claws Vilgax. Then it moves a bit, tail spikes Horus, tail spikes Minion - killing him - and bites Dennis.  Impressive flexibility.  It finishes up with another stomp attack on Rusty and The Captain - The Captain saves again!   Rusty doesn't.

Rusty gets up, again, and runs over to where Minion was.  He picks up the spell storing item Minion was using, and uses it to shoot the Tarrasque, becoming visible in the process.  Then he ducks behind the pillar again.

Horus girds his loins and whips up a 6th level spell slot fireball and looses it at the Tarrasque, doing the massive total of **no damage**, because it is immune to fire.  Fine!  How about a 5th level Guiding Bolt right up your ass, then!  Don't mind if I do, says the Tarrasque, reflecting it back on to Horus.  Horus tucks his fluffy little tail between his legs and jumps away again.

The Captain comes out from behind his indestructible shield for long enough to hit the Tarrasque three times, then ducks back behind it and hides.  You're not fooling anyone, Captain!  Except the Tarrasque, apparently.

Dennis takes two swings at the Tarrasque and misses both times, then shadow steps away, hides behind a pillar, and Hand of Heals himself off death's door.

Louie takes a swing at the Tarrasque, but there is a Wall of Force in the way.  So he rides Raymond around the pillar to the other side and has another go, but misses.

Vilgax heals Rusty and Horus 85 HP each.

Gary continues to hide like a little b*tch.

There is a flare of wild Chronomancy, or something, causing 62HP if damage to the Tarrasque. That should just offset its next round of regeneration.

# Here pauseth the lesson, as it is very late.