---
layout: post
title:  "Session 59. Smurfette is a little b*tch."
date:   2026-05-03 15:13:39 +1100
categories: jekyll update
---
# Horus is still dead.

_Note: Only Jim and Scott showed up, so it's just Rusty and Horus. And Rusty's sidekick, Wit._

_Second note: Dennis was technically there too, but Scott playing 3 characters to Jim's one dead guy was a bit much, so he's NPCing it with the rest of the party._

_Third note: Gary is not there, because Horus is dead, so he got forcibly unsummoned._  :(

We are back with the Quom, Horus is dead (but playing as a Ghost), and Bahamut has just shown up.  He does a recap lore dump about how Lakal died, and says he feels just awful about it.  He asks us to assist him, by acting as mediators and getting permission from the Quom to join them on their ship.  He says he will do his best to help them resurrect Lakal.  He gives us one of his gold dragons, polymorphed into a wooden canary, to take inside with instructions to rub it if we get the Quom's permission.  Rusty has Minion take it into his recess in Rusty's armour to keep it secret, keep it safe.

We agree, and he settles down to wait.  Time resumes, and the Quom start to move again, but they do not appear to be able to see Bahamut.

Rusty asks Tholis, the only half-sensible Quom, what she recommends to defuse the situation.  She says if we agree to stand down and follow directions to their leader, then she should be able to get everyone calmed down.  We agree, and she lives up to her side of the deal. The party "surrenders", and we are led to a big room filled with smurfs, with Smurfette at the front.

# Where I _almost_ talked Ethan round.

Rusty starts a genial discussion with Smurfette (or High Reclaimer Veshka, as she calls herself).  He asks leading questions, getting her to talk about her people's past, their history, their aims and dreams.  God, does she love to talk.  After enough time doing this that Jim was getting thoroughly bored, Ethan realises that I've talked her around in circles such that the only sensible thing for her to do is seek Bahamut's help restoring her God.  Once Ethan catches on, though, it's all over.  Smurfette goes full psycho and adamantly refuses to engage in any more discussion. We bring Bahamut here, right now, **and** we help her kill him, or... something.  I mean, she seems to think she has the authority to force our willing compliance.  Sure, if she has overwhelming power, she can force _compliance_ - but it is a bit harder to force us to agree with her.  She's no God-Brain, and even he couldn't do that.

Rusty agrees to attempt bring Bahamut here, right now - noting that he isn't actually a worshipper of Bahamut, and he's already thrown out a prayer and the ship's dimensional shenanigans prevented it getting through, so he's not sure it's going to work.  He does _not_ agree to kill Bahamut for her, not because of any lack of will, but just because - he's Bahamut, for God's sake.  Like, #2 on the heirachy of cosmic Gods.  He **smashed** Lakal, _by accident_.  There is absolutely no way that Rusty and Casper are going to be able to take him down.

Smurfette, in classic psychotic narcissistic behaviour, does not take this perceived opposition to her will well.  She activates the ships "shut down everyone without any preventative action - or indeed any action at all - being possible".  Then, when we are all "dead", has our corpses dragged off to the brink.

Thankfully, Casper - who was already dead - gets abducted by Tholis, who is starting to suspect Smurfette might not be _all there_.  Tholis takes Horus back to her cabin (not for that) and explains how to deactivate the cages holding the rest of the party.

# Mission impossible - to fail

Horus takes some time to go through Tholis' personal things and finds the expected tragic backstory.  That's one question answered - Tholis now has a sensible reason for helping the party and going against the wishes of her races leader. Nice!

Then he takes off, going through the crowded ship to the control chamber.  Now, Ethan _expected_ Horus to possess (remember, he's a ghost) the first Quom he came across, and then saunter through the ship pretending to be a Quom and requiring a bit of role play and deception checks along the way.  Jim does not roll that way.  Even when confronted by the Quom that Ethan described as "the lowest Charisma Quom you've ever seen", Jim _refuses_ to possess him and just wanders past Ethereally.  I quote Jim: "What's he going to do?"

What he did was raise the alarm, but after we read the Ghost stat block carefully, we realised that there was no reason for Horus to stick to the corridors - he's just as comfortable traversing the ship following the corridor walls, inside them.  He doesn't even need to stick his head out to look around - ghosts can see through walls.  So Horus gaily traipses through the ship while all the other Quom fruitlessly search for him, eventually concluding that the first guy made it all up.

Horus makes it to the control chamber, where he is confronted with a puzzle devised by Ethan, working under the constraints that it cannot be a cypher.  You can guess how this went.  Some time later, with much argument about the meaning of English words (what is meaning, anyway?), the puzzle is solved, and the crippling gas is extracted from the prison.  For some reason, this prompted all but one of the guards to evacuate the prison and run off into the ship somewhere, leaving just one guy behind.

Ethan, still irritated that Jim didn't follow his possession sub-plot, says that **this** Quom is really _high_ charisma, but with the way Jim and Ethan rolled, that didn't matter.  Horus helpfully found that the guard had pockets filled with scrolls of Disintegrate, which was very helpful for disabling the Forcecages that everyone was held in, on one hit point, and with 5 levels of exhaustion.  Nice!  We're all free!  To roll helplessly on the floor!

What Ethan forgot is that the fifth level of exhaustion makes your speed zero, so nobody could move.  Rusty was able to cast Greater Restoration on himself - once.  Louie probably could have managed one too.  We had a plan to kill and raise With to remove another.  But the "party" consisted of Thauvia, Louie, Raymond, Rusty, Wit, The Captain, Cleetus, and Dennis.  All of whom needed 5 casts of Greater Restoration _each_ - so 35 5th level spells - in addition to a metric fuckton of healing.

Rusty had reached the point of considering changing his subclass to Alchemist to be able to whip up Potions of Vitality, but Alchemists don't get that ability until level 15 anyway, and it would never be enough.  So Ethan suggests we just summon Bahamut.  Minion pops out of his recess with the wooden canary and takes it over to Casper to give it a rub.  He does, and it explodes, killing the party who are all on one HP.  Not really.  From the explosion pops out an Ancient Gold Dragon.  Rusty wonders briefly which one it is - all of Bahamut's Gold Dragons are named and have specific roles.  Rusty suspects it is Gruemar the Voice, but didn't want to ask.

Anyway, Gruemar allows us all to take one scale (seven, total) from his hide, which has the _miraculous_ effect of:

* Removing all exhaustion.
* Returning everyone to full HP.
* Restoring any spell slots and components we may have used trying to fix the exhaustion.

It was not specified that the scales disappeared, nor that Gruemar took them back, so Louie - they're in the party treasure stash now!

# The final countdown

We all head to the not at all pretentiously named "Altar of First Grief".  Like only your emotions have validity - typical narcissist, Smurfette.  When we get there, we find: Smurfette, standing in front of a big glowy thing.  Bahamut, trying to talk sense into her (good luck) and asking that she release his friends (that's us).  Horus' body, mutilated and lying stretched out on the floor as though it has been the rope in a game of tug-of-war.  And, unconscious on the other side of Horus' body from Smurfette, lies Tholis.

Rusty, Horus and Wit come tromping down the stairs (well, floating in Wit's case).  The rest of the party remain at the entrance to hold back the incoming tide of 2700 Quom who are on the warpath.  Rusty is not concerned.  Four tanks, plus Dennis who is a supercharged hybrid tank/field controller, and The Captain who is an invisible wraith with a pointy sword of insane damage dealing.  In the battle of six against a thousand, they were going to fuck that thousand up.

Smurfette spots the party coming for her, which accounts for her panicking into error.  She smashes the glowy thing behind her, releasing all the trapped motes of Lakal, which she then proceeds to eat - ignoring rule 22 of the Evil Overlord list: "No matter how tempted I am with the prospect of unlimited power, I will not consume any energy field bigger than my head."  Bahamut resurrects Horus.  Smurfette starts combat.

**Initiative:** Rusty 29. Wit 27. Horus 22. Veshka: Unknown, but lower than 22.  Wit had prepared for this by casting Gift of Alacrity (+1d8 to initiative) on everyone, but Horus lost this bonus when he body swapped.  Sorry, dude.

Bahamut isn't fighting.  Pussy.

### Round 1

Rusty heals Tholis, waking her up.  He wasn't sure she would be useful in combat, but didn't want to pull a Bahamut/Lakal and have her smashed by crossfire.  She elects to hide behind Horus and give him advantage on everything for the rest of the combat.  Not bad.

Wit attempts to cut this fight short by casting Mental Prison on Smurfette, but she makes her save and only takes 5d10 psychic damage.

Horus casts Evards Black Tentacles on Smurfette, resulting in an argument between him and Rusty about the details of the spell.  It was at this point that we become aware that Horus is casting 5.5 spells.  Anyway, it doesn't work very well.

Smurfette closes with the party and lays about her with her sword and whip.  She hits Horus with her sword, misses Rusty with her sword, and hits Wit with her whip.  That f*cking whip!  It does **heaps** of damage, and it stuns you!

### Round 2

Rusty tries hitting Smurfette with his Hammer, and hits 1 from 2.

Wit has another go with Mental Prison.  Smurfette fails her save, which then sends us down a rabbit hole of "what effect does True Seeing have on spells from the Illusion school?"  We eventually decide that it doesn't just make you totally immune, but it does mean you always save.  So just another 5d10 psychic, and Wit isn't going to bother with Illusions any more.

Horus does his magic bunny hop to open the distance, and goes old school.  He up-casts Magic Missile to 7th level.  Take that you blue freak.

Smurfette:

* Uses a legendary action to take a swing at Rusty with her sword (miss)
* Uses her first attack of her action to take another swing at Rusty with her sword (miss)
* Hits Wit with her sword
* Has a go at Rusty with her whip but misses again

### Round 3

Rusty tries to hit Smurfette with his hammer and would have if not for Silvery Barbs.  This does have the advantageous side-effect of using up her reaction this round.

Wit, free to move out of range because she has no reactions, goes vertically upward out of range of swords and whips.  Then he hears a whining noise (probably Smurfette) and fails a save against being Forcecaged.  He tries to use Misty Step to escape, but fails the save required and is stuck there.

Horus drops the Evards Black Tentacles - they're not doing anything, and no-one is in the AofE anyway. This frees his concentration to cast Eyebite on Smurfette, who fails her save.  Horus chooses the "Sickened" option, which gives Smurfette disadvantage on all attack rolls and ability checks.  In addition, Eyebite is a Necromancy spell which is super-effective, in that it gives Horus another go.  He vacillates over Fireball, worried that the other members of the party might get caught in the AoE.  Wit is inside a Forcecage, which protects him, and Rusty is immune to fire.  Bring in ON!  Then he hears some more whining, and jumps clear just in time to dodge a Forcecage of his own.

The party is on guard now.  There's a whistling sound just before each one, so we can avoid those!

Veshka uses her legendary action to try to hit Rusty with her sword.  Miss.  Then she moves forward a little bit (not enough to provoke an opportunity attack) and hits Horus with her whip.  Ouch.  Then she has another 2 tries at hitting Rusty.  No chance.

One of Bahamut's golden dragon-canaries does a fly by on Wit's forcecage, pecking it to nothingness.

### Round 4

Rusty swings wildly with his hammer, missing both times.

Wit goes another 20' up (to be safe), casts Haste on himself, then with his second action, casts Finger of Death on Smurfette.  Then, because that was a Necromancy spell (Wit has been paying attention) he gets another go - and hits Smurfette with _another_ Finger of Death.  She saves against the second one, but still took 95 points of damage from the 2 spells.

Horus drops another Fireball at ground zero.

Veshka is getting frustrated by this point and just goes all out on Rusty.  Legendary action.  Miss. Sword. Miss. Whip. Miss. Sword. Miss.  Rusty grins smugly at her.  She uses her Legendary resistance to dispel the effects of the eyebite.  Rusty tells her this is not going to help.

### Round 5?

Just as we're about to get started on really smearing this bitch, we hear the sound of 2700 Quom trampling over the top of our immovable bulwark at the top of the stairs.  Rusty calls bullshit on this - there is no way the Party of God at the top of the stairs didn't take out a single malformed dwarf.  Having said that, there is a bit of a Persuasion battle fought between Horus and Smurfette.  She's trying to get her minions to dogpile us.  Horus is trying to convince them that she has gone mad, and is _eating_ their god.  Wit has a Wall of Stone prepared, just in case.

Horus wins the persuasion roll-off, and they pile on Smurfette.  Who explodes.  Bahamut catches all the escaping motes and starts reconstructing Lakal.  The **ship** explodes.  Nobody really cares.  Bahamut gives a rousing inspirational speech. Lakal says nothing but exudes gratefulness.

There is no loot.  We're still sneaking out with those scales, though.