---
layout: post
title:  "Session 60 - WTF is wrong with Adam, anyway?"
campaign: Lamordia
date:   2026-05-24 15:13:39 +1100
categories: jekyll update
---
# Before the fun begins

The party is by the courthouse, when Ethan narrates the following scene to us:

A huge, hooded figure and his cronies attack the Dreadnaught from all sides - the dry ones and the wet ones.  They toss the crew overboard, and invade Rusty's quarters.  From there, they steal the fully repaired Shield Guardian and all the copper Rusty has.  The hooded figure explains to the Shield Guardian that it is now free, and can go where it wishes.  The Shield Guardian joins in on the larcenous fun and also steals something from Rusty's gear, secreting it in its neck.  Then they leave the ship and disappear.

# Now the game starts

The party, in front of the courtroom, are discussing what they should do.  They recall there is a rescue mission being advertised by the University, and they also have to smuggle DopDop and Emily to the Abandoned Estate. Then we hear a commotion coming from the main square.  Zoe hasn't played in a while so Louie rushes off to the first sign of excitement.

In the main square, there is a rabid crowd, surrounding a troop of Helmed Horrors, surrounding a Flesh Golem.  The mob is screaming for the things death.  The Horrors are backing the Golem up on to a pyre where they start to set fire to him.

We figure out from interrogating some crowd members, and context clues, that this is one of the group that raided the Dreadnaught.  He is the only one that has been caught so far.  Louie attempts to intimidate the crowd into letting the party take custody of the Golem, on the basis that we were the injured parties.  It does not work.  It's taking some time for Zoe's dice to warm up.

One of the mob takes this opportunity to spit at Horus and scream racial slurs at him.  She is now known as Spitty Bitch.

Rusty tries to talk to the Golem telepathically.  The Golem isn't talking, but Rusty gets his surface thoughts - he considers himself a soldier, and that his death is a price he is willing to pay.  Rusty does get from his thoughts that this guy is definitely a Child of Adam, and that Adam was responsible for the raid.

Louie decides to take matters into his own hands, and jumps over the top of the crowd onto the pyre, where he attempts to douse the flames with a wet blanket.  This is working poorly, and he figures out he should at least get the Golem out of the flaming bonfire.  He breaks off the post that the Golem is tied to, and tries to toss it to the party.  Wit takes pity on Louie and telekinetically carries the Golem to the party, where we make our getaway back to the Dreadnaught.  Chased by a screaming mob.

# This guy sucks

We douse the Golem and Dennis tries to heal him - but Ki based healing does not work.  No worries, there are plenty of party members with electrical attacks.  Louie gets there first and Lays on Hands.

The Golem resists at first, until we tell him that we actually know Adam.  That calms him down, but there's still a mob coming.

Rusty approaches the mob, and says in a loud voice "Officers of the Law! I wish to report a crime!".  The crowd stops in confusion, and the Horrors approach to take Rusty's report.  Rusty just reports that the Dreadnaught has been invaded, it's crew assaulted, and some items stolen - though a full accounting of what is missing has yet to be completed.  He further says that his understanding of Lamordian law states, as the injured parties, and given that the apprehended criminal does not have legal rights, that the punishment of the criminal is at our discretion.  The Horrors check Rusty's paperwork to make sure that he has legal rights (he does), and then say that this is acceptable, if the party speaks to Administrator Kristof Halmein at the University and take a job from him to investigate the Sleeping Beast mountains.  We accept.

The Golem - Brother Marcus - is thoroughly convinced that his team were in the right and shows no contrition for stealing things from Rusty.  Initially he tries to defend himself with the assertion that the Shield Guardian was a sentient being that Rusty had no rights over, but Rusty shuts him down by saying that isn't what he is upset about.  The Shield Guardian is it's own creature - it can do what it wants.  It's all the copper they stole!  That was Rusty's!

Marcus gets all defensive, cementing Rusty's opinion that he is an idiot, and colouring Rusty's opinion of anyone Marcus calls friend.

# We were doing that job anyway

We head to the University and speak to Administrator Kristof Halmein.  He tells a tale of what happens when people with the power to order other people around fall victim to the sunk cost fallacy.

* 6 months ago, the University sent a expedition of 4 scholars into the Sleeping Beast mountains to investigate unusual lightning.  They vanished without a trace.
* 4 months ago, the University sent a military group out to try to find the first expedition.  Their last message indicated they had come into contact with a hostile group. No more was heard from them.
* 2 months ago, the University sent another expedition to find the first and second ones.  They also vanished without a trace.

On schedule, it's time for another expedition.  Us.  We are offered 200 Lamode to return with confirmed information regarding the fate of the prior 3 expeditions, half up front.  There is another 300 Lamode on offer if we return with any survivors.  Kristof also gives us 2 anti-radiation injections (Greater Restoration).

We then race to the train station to see if we can catch Dr Mordenheim before he departs - we are successful.  We want to see if he has any anti-radiation potions with him that we can buy.  Turns out he does - we get:

* 3 Lesser Restoration potions
* 4 Remove Curse potions
* 4 Greater Restoration potions

# Set sail

We head back to the Dreadnaught. On the way we see Spitty Bitch at her stall, selling fish.  She comes over to Horus and apologises, asserting it was her identical twin sister that did it.  She then abuses some of her patrons who are nasty to Horus.  We are all very suspicious of her.

Back at the ship, Rusty does an audit of his cabin to determine what is missing.  The Shield Guardian, all the copper and the beacon part of a tracking device - but not the receiver.  Rusty turns the tracker on, and determines that the beacon is currently somewhere near the Pulstein Mine.

We have a party meeting to decide the way forward, and decide to drop Emily and DopDop at the Abandoned Estate first, then sail up the Boiling River to the Lorelei Falls, where we will disembark and travel overland to the Pulstein Mine.

We reach the Abandoned Estate without issues, and Rusty, Louie and Horus walk Emily and DopDop into the freakishly spooky building.  On the way in they reach a point where Rusty can no longer breathe.  Louie has issues, but is immune to poison so he's OK. Horus, not needing to breathe, doesn't even notice.  Emily is fine because this is her ancestral home, and her family had adapted to the area.  DopDop does not die, even though he should.  Rusty backtracks until he finds the point at which the deadly miasma begins and draws a biohazard line on the ground.  It seemed the responsible thing to do.

Leaving the happy couple to their mouldy honeymoon, the party returns to the Dreadnaught and sails to the Lorelei Falls.  We all disembark with great care - we know what the waters here can do.

# Alpine adventure

Whilst taking a leisurely stroll across the top of the world, Horus gets mind-raped by Adam.  Well, what else would you call it when he enters without consent?

The party stumbles across an abandoned Temple of Selune.  Louie gets his pious on, while Rusty searches for hidden passages and loot.  Rusty comes away with 3 moonstones and 7 silver arrows, while Louie comes away down one ruby.  Rusty takes pity on him and gives him the arrows, because he's the only person in the party still living in the middle ages and using a bow and arrow, like some sort of hunter gatherer.

Further on we locate a dead climber. Her papers identify her as a hermit, and she was carrying another Potion of Lesser Restoration.  Now we're carrying another potion of Lesser Restoration.  What is the point of Lesser Restoration?  Ends a disease, or blind, deaf, paralyzed or poisoned conditions.  Dennis can slap that shit out of you.  Anyway, the climber had dementia, and her body lies next to a crate that she appeared to have been carrying.  Fucking Xal-ititty again.  Rusty loots the crate, but Marcus jumps in to steal the copper tubing.  From there, Ethan and Scott have an extensive "discussion" about what constitutes the amount of copper one would expect to find in a crate of "alchemy supplies".  Scott is leaning toward a coil of piping, at least a few feet long.  Ethan seems to think about one teaspoonful would be about right.  Once Rusty figures out how pathetic the payoff would be, he refrains from ganking Marcus for persistent sass, and lets it go.

Moving on, we locate a narrow valley.  It is the site of an abandoned camp. There are broken crates scattered about, and a demolished observation tower.  Under some rubble there is a University of Ludendorf flag.  The camp has been ransacked - there is little here to loot.  Horus spots a hidden burrow (courtesy of his bunny instincts from his past life?) and hears a woman's voice coming from within.  We take a closer look and call to her to come out, but she is having none of it.  The only one of us small enough to get inside is Louie, and he can't find her (she's under the bed).  So we tell her that we're from the University, ask her to sit tight, and we'll pick her up on the way back.  If she's too scared to sit tight, she can head down the mountain to the Lorelei Falls, where the Dreadnaught awaits.  It can take her back to Ludendorf.  Then we move on.

At the top of the cliff, we look back, and can see her scurrying away down the mountain.

Further up the mountain we find a valley just filled with dead soldiers.  They died of being beaten the shit out of by Golems.  The hints Ethan gave were more general than that, but we all know.  They died ~4 months ago.  All their ID papers have been taken, but we do find a journal under on of the bodies.

We scale a cliff further on and find the camp of the third expedition. They're all dead too.  Someone has left behind a piece of parchment with the word "Inhabited" written on it, nailed to a tree.  From here we can see the Monastery.

# Where Rusty loses it

It's an idiots idea of a good idea.  The flagrant ***wastage*** of copper to channel lightning is unforgivable!  They have a mere 3 raised receivers, and they're topped with big flattened copper balls!  That's a n00b mistake!  They need more receivers, they need to terminate in sharp points, they need to direct the downleads in a fractal pattern to wherever they're hoping to store this energy.  Rusty was angry enough at having his stuff stolen, but if it was being used for some essential humanitarian purpose he would have forgiven them.  But to just **waste** it like this is just barbaric.

We overhear some chatter from the guards who are currently oblivious to our presence.  Amateurs.  They're spouting the usual divided opinions - one wants to exterminate all humans, the other wants to promote peaceful relations.  Idiots - before you attempt to integrate with others, get your own house in order!

Marcus walks us in, anyway, and we spend some time world-building, seeing how the Golems live up here.  Like savages, frankly, but they're on the right path.  They desperately need some master tradesmen to apprentice under.  Other than that, they have everything they need here for a utopia.  They don't need food, the cold doesn't bother them, and there's _plenty_ of lightning around for when they want to get up to reproductive activities.  They have a practically unlimited amount of tireless labor - their own - all they need is some higher learning to really get a handle on the crafts they need to perfect.  Masonry, Smithing, and Golem surgery.  Rusty's a little rusty on golem surgery, but he's got everything else down pat.

Marcus introduces us to Sister Hernel, who gives us a guided tour.  Rusty is initially very excited to see they have a scriptorium, but less happy to see that they have almost entirely devoted it to auto-biographical works, and not technical treatises.

She also introduces us to Adam.  Adam, it transpires, is bipolar and has a dissociative personality disorder - not that he sees it that way.  At one point he forcibly resets his personality from his child persona to his adult persona by punching himself in the face.  Rusty suggests he look into a device like a Mind Sharpener crown.  Adam is initially averse to the idea, thinking that Rusty is hinting at a way to suppress or remove his alternate persona, but that wasn't what Rusty was getting at.  A modified Mind Sharpener could easily be calibrated to Adam to allow him to control when he switches personalities, and do it - literally - at the flick of a switch.  Adam is intrigued.

Adam knows Horus, but is dismissive of our Horus as he thinks this one is merely a time clone.  Jokes on him.  We collapsed the time loop - there are no other Horus' coming now.

With Adam is a small boy, who appears to be happy to be here, despite not being a Golem.  This is probably the resurrected Ava, but when the conversation swings lightly in the direction of Dr Mordenheim in transpires that he is not keen on the guy and would dearly love to kill him.  Bloodthirsty little brute.

Adam also informs Rusty that he is aware of the location of Xal-ititty's lair, and seems well-disposed toward telling us so we can fuck him up.

# Flashback

The party is departing Ludendorf University.  A figure gazes down upon us from a window.  He turns to 3 Vampire/Mind Flayer monstrosities and tells them: "Make your way to Rustinium's Stones.  Let's send her first assault."

# [Notes](https://torpid-bull-0ac.notion.site/Scotts-Notes-For-24th-May-2026-36aa221c9b078008ba41da8e85ff219f?source=copy_link)