---
layout: post
title:  "Session 58 - Kramer vs Kramer"
campaign: Lamordia
date:   2026-04-26 15:13:39 +1100
categories: jekyll update
---
# Thrilling PvP Courtroom Drama!

_Disclaimer: Not actually thrilling, particularly for poor Dan_

We are back in the courtroom in Lamordia. Ethan attempts to pick up the pace of the action by talking for both sides, but after one horrifically failed roll by the prosecution, that falls apart.

The defense, Barnabus (only one name, like Cher) calls to the stand Andrei Voss, one of the "supposed" victims, now miraculously alive!  The prosecutor, Jess Lockett, is suspicious of his bone fides, and Barnabus is highly offended that anyone would question his integrity.  Andrei manages to fool the polygraph, so his testimony stands for now.

Jess then makes a tactical error by calling Josef Richter to the stand to testify that he was imprisoned and illegally experimented on.  This went well initially, but he suddenly clammed up.  It is revealed later that this was because he was telepathically contacted at that moment, and threatened not only with his own outing as a werewolf, but also the outing of his cousin, Helena Klein.  This would result in the immediate lynching of both of them, and the destruction of Baytown.

Initially, this doesn't heavily affect us because we were sending a Helmed Horror down to the secret lab so the jury can see the horror.  The Helmed Horror finds a wall across the passage - not only does the lab not exist, the tunnel to the lab doesn't even exist.  Jess calls Senior Constable Voss to the stand.  First she asks SC Voss if the Andrei Voss who testified earlier was, in fact, her brother.  SC Voss was not in the room during his testimony, and Andrei has now left the courtroom, so we get the court stenographer to bring up a still image of Andrei.  It is not her brother.  Surprise!  We get his testimony struck.

Then she asks SC Voss if the wall that is being shown in the Helmed Horrors live feed was there yesterday, when she went into the tunnels and arrested Dr Volmer.  She said it was not there, and Jess petitions the court to knock the wall down to investigate behind it.  After some protests from the defense, permission is granted, at which point it is revealed that Helmed Horrors have Blindsight, and that it knew the wall was an illusion the whole time.  Useless robot.  Anyway, it proceeds.

Further in, it finds a pool of blood seeping out under the door to the boiler room, and when it opens the door, it finds the body of Friedreich, the Duergar maintenance worker that we spoke to when we were there.  The Helmed Horrors seal that area off for a future investigation, and proceed deeper.

Volmer's secret office is found, largely untouched.  The remains of the Helmed Horrors he destroyed were found, and the gun he used was shown in evidence.  Barnabus asserts that there is no proof that the bullets which destroyed these Helmed Horrors came from Volmer's gun, and so the bullets are extracted from the Helmed Horrors and examined.  Volmer, it transpires, not only monogrammed his pistol - he also monograms his bullets!  Idiot.

The Horror moves further in to the secret lab.  The Gelatinous Cube is gone.  The AI has been destroyed.  The majority of the evidence has been removed.  The bodies in the tanks are gone.  It is still clear, though, that this was a lab engaged in vivisection.

The prosecution presents to the court the provisional contract between Volmer and the Baron for the fruits of his research.  As they do so, a female autognome agent of the Baron enters the court and instructs the Judge that this item of evidence is to be suppressed for reasons of state security.  The Judge is not pleased, and says that he is not accustomed to being told what to do in his own courtroom.  The autognome says "You may do whatever you want".  Well, everyone knows what it means when a woman says that, and the Judge begrudgingly states that the contract is to be suppressed for reasons of state security.

The judge asks at this point if there are further witnesses to call. We say we want to recall Josef Richter (mistake) and that we would then be calling Emily Bollenbach, the researcher that defected to us while we were down there.  We ask the judge if he could please send a contingent of Helmed Horrors to The Dreadnaught to bring her to court.

The Helmed Horrors arrive at the Dreadnaught and are escorted to Emily's cabin by The Captain and Dennis.  The door is locked, and Dennis can hear a struggle going on inside.  The Captain uses his master keys to open the door, and we see Emily being strangled by an assailant who has entered through the window.  The assailant, upon seeing us, drops Emily and swallows something.  Dennis, who was already rushing in with Ki turned on, places one hand on Emily and applies Hand of Healing, and the other hand on the assailant, also applying Hand of Healing to remove poison - but the second one does not work, seemingly for plot reasons.  Anyway, the court witnessed this, and Emily is safe.  She is escorted to the court.

On the stand, though, things are going less well.  Josef is recanting much of his testimony, and the prosecution asks to approach the bench.  Largely to figure out procedural stuff which Jess would have known, but Ethan has been making it up on the fly so we needed to all get on the same page.  Bottom line - now that Jess has called Josef, there is no way to prevent Barnabus from being allowed to question him, and no way to protect him from being exposed as a werewolf.  Thankfully, this discussion shows Ethan that the PCs have no way out of this, and Barnabus proposes a deal.  He will cease this line of questioning if the prosecution drops the charges of unlawful acquisition of bodies and unlawful experimentation.

The party goes into a telepathic huddle, including Jess, Josef and Helena.  Josef explains how he was threatened, which Rusty is very put out about.  This has now become a grudge match for him to not only kill Xal’itith, but purge all records of his existence and research from the worlds.  Mind Flayers knowing how to avoid the perception of Flumphs is **not on**.

Josef is very apologetic, and even though The Captain is highly ambivalent and frankly, a bit keen on making a punitive expedition to Baytown himself, the party decides to drop the charges to save the town.

Back to Emily (now not needed), Dennis and The Captain outside the courthouse.  Dennis notices a poster for the local playhouse, and spots in the back of the photo of the cast a familiar face.  It is "Andrei Voss", or the actor/assassin that pretended to be him.  He points this out to the Helmed Horror, which of course means that the court also gets to see this.  The judge is highly upset with Barnabus, and says that on the completion of this case, he will be looking into action against him.

# It's getting late.

We skim through the rest of the stuff.  The prosecution is a bit disheartened at the dropping of all the serious charges, and we're trailing the defense on points at this stage, so we've pretty much given up.  All that remains is to roll on the remaining arguments, which we do.

Astonishingly, we pull out a victory from the jaws of defeat.  The final roll went to Dan, for the win!

# Judgement

After a long deliberation, the jury returns and proclaims they have found:

* Dr Gedding, guilty on the misdemeanor charge of signing invalid flesh rights contracts.
* Dr Kraus, guilty of felony abuse for making excessively dangerous traps in theoretically open areas.
* Dr Volmer, guilty of impersonation of another person in academic publishing.

That sounds a bit light to the party, so we weren't hopeful.

The Judge, however, was not feeling in a lenient mood.

# Punishment

For the crime of incorrectly writing up flesh rights contracts, the Judge orders that Dr Gedding must resign his tenure at the University within 24 hours, lose all University granted writs and rights, and hand over control of this clinic to the next most senior University official - Dr Kelland.  He must then serve 200 hours of service as an aide in the Notary Office, learning the correct procedure for such legal processes.

Wow.  That was awesomely harsh.  The only concern the PCs have is Dr Kelland - he's the guy that was giving a lecture on Flumph anatomy, and we're not convinced he isn't Xal'ytith in disguise.  Even if he isn't, he definitely has links.

For the crime of abuse, the Judge orders that Dr Kraus also must resign her tenure at the university and lose all writs and rights associated therewith. In addition, because of her flagrant disregard for life - indeed, active damage to life - she is to lose the title of Doctor.  Finally, she is to be escorted to Neufeuchtenburg to use her trap making skills to build defensinve measure into the town walls to assist with dealing with the yeti aggression from the Sleeping Peaks.

The party elected not to bring the Judge up to date, in that they had already solved the yeti aggression problem - because we thought it would be funny.

The Judge was initially bemused as to what penalty would be appropriate for Volmer impersonating a different identity, and made the mistake of wondering this aloud.  Without thinking, and certainly without forethought or any expectation his utterances would be acted upon, Rusty said "He likes being someone else - take his identity away."

With an evil grin, the Judge requested Barnabus to bring Volmers papers to him, whereupon he tore them up.  He dictated that the person before him was no longer Volmer, and indeed, had no identity.  He instructed the Notary office to write him up a completely new set of papers, with no writs or rights, no money or possessions.

The party all sit in awe of this guy.

Then the Judge announces that today, he personally has failed Justice, and that he will be resigning forthwith.  As his final act as a judge, he disbars Barnabus from ever serving as counsel again.

# Reward

The Judge awards Cletus and Rusty one writ each for their service to the courts.  

Ethan awards Cletus and Rusty +2 permanent hit points each, for their service to legal drama.

# Outside

Professor Conrad Eisenhut tentatively congratulates us.  He had not thought that we would have such a large impact on the University when he granted us access, and behove us to pay more mind to out of bounds warnings.  Cletus responded that we just followed the evidence without fear or favour.  Rusty noted that the out of bounds areas were where all the illicit stuff _was_.  Conrad agreed, and moved on.

Dr Amelia passed by with her fancy cadaver collector and also congratulated us.

Dr Kelland, the new head of the University clinic, smiles creepily at us - mostly at Rusty.  You're next, weirdo!

Dr Victor Mordenheim tips his hat to us, and nonchalantly cures Louie's radiation poisoning, curing his blindness.  He mentions that we should be careful around the mountains, or in any of the mountain runoff streams, about radiation.  He also mentions that if we suffer from radiation sickness in future, that he sells potions in his clinic to treat it.

Then, in broad daylight on the steps of the court, he asks about the research he asked us to liberate!  Rusty suggests that this conversation should probably be held in a more private location, so we all pile into Victor's coach.  I assume it is a **big** coach.  We hand over the research, and watch while Victor reads it.  A tear runs down his face when he reads the line "3, 4, hear Ava's roar".

Victor explained that he had an adopted daughter called Ava, and that a monster called Adam threw her out a window to her death.  The documents we liberated described an experiment performed by The Alchemist (Rustinium) to attempt a resurrection of a young boy, which went awry.  The body returned to life, but with a different soul.  From the description of the experiment, Victor believes that it is Ava's soul that inhabits the young boys body.

He believes that this young boy is being held in the Monastery of the Quickened Thunderbolt, in the Sleeping Beast mountains.  That monastery is where the Children of Adam live.

Victor beseeches us to rescue the boy from the cult's clutches and return him to Victor's clinic.

# We wait (for everyone else)