---
layout: post
title:  "Session 62 - Xalititty is a coward."
campaign: Lamordia
date:   2026-06-14 15:13:39 +1100
categories: jekyll update
---
# Stupid Xalititty.

The stupid MF tries to convince us that we would be better working together.  We told him to shove it where the sun doesn't shine.  You know, the really deep canyon near Slice in the Ramtops.

Combat!  Initiative order was: Rusty/Wit (37), Louie/Raymond (35), Cleetus (34), Horus (33), Adam (24), Xalititty (21), Bark (8), then the Foresight Shield on 0.

## Round 1

Wit fires off a Synaptic Static - turns out Xalititty is immune to Psychic damage.

Rusty runs over (avoiding the pit that he knew was illusionary, because he's a suspicious bastard) and fucking clobbers Xalititty with the Hammer of Porphyrous.  Turns out Xalititty is vulnerable to acid. Foresight uses a reaction to upcast Heat Metal at 4th level on Rusty.  Rusty says "Oooo, noooo, it hurts so bad" and hugs Xalititty as hard as he can.  Xalititty takes fire damage.

Xalitty uses a Legendary Action to Thunder Step away from Rusty to where the rest of the party is.  This Thunder Step is extra special, because in addition to the Thunder damage, if you fail your save, you are also knocked prone.  It also does the Thunder damage at _both_ ends of the Teleport.

Louie and Raymond jump over the heads of the party and bash Xalititty while hovering in the air.

Cleetus hits Xalititty, then crits him, then misses. Then Xalititty mocks him, so he Action Surges for 3 more hits.  Suck on that.

Horus, who has been paying attention, sprays Xalititty with an upcast Tasha's Caustic Brew, doing persistent acid damage.  Then he uses his bonus action to cast Dragon Breath on himself - acid breath, obviously.

Adam runs across the ceiling, completely fails to take the opportunity to drop the elbow from the top rope, and continues over to Bark, where he tries to grapple him peacefully.  Adam, however, turns out to be a wimp and is thoroughly out-wrestled by Bark.

Xalititty, on his action, takes acid damage (thanks, Horus!).  He also zaps Louie, Raymond and Rusty.  Rusty saves, but the other two fail and are feebleminded.  Raymond takes enough damage to drop. Then Xalititty hits Rusty again, and paralyzes him.

## Round 2

The background lair action goes off, and Rusty and Wit fail.  They both choose to take a mutation rather than take a level of exhaustion.  Rusty gets Darkvision 60' (which he already had) and gains disadvantage on sight based perception in bright light.  Wit, however, wins the lottery.  He gets 2 arms! Now he can draw/stow 2 more items per action, and has advantage on grapples.

Rusty, paralyzed, Misty Steps away and drinks a healing potion.  At the end of his turn, he saves against the paralysis.

Wit flies up to the ceiling, and casts Haste on Cleetus.

Louie drinks a healing potion. Adam uses his reaction to cast Raise Dead on Raymond, who comes back with his statuses removed and is no longer feebleminded.  Raymond feeds a Greater Restoration potion to Louie, so he's not feebleminded any more either.

Cleetus leaps into the air and grabs Xalititty (so he doesn't fall in the illusory pit) and beats the heck out of him.  Then he jumps back off Xalititty to the edge of the pit.

Horus moves forward to the edge of the pit, and breathes acid all over X. 

Ethan has been irritated that nobody has stepped in his illusory pit yet, so he makes Adam do it.  He grabs X, chokes him out and snaps his neck.  He also takes 6d6 psychic damage from the trap hidden under the illusory pit.  Rusty was right!  It's not paranoia if they really are out to get you.

We had all noticed by this stage that X was bleeding red, so we knew it wasn't really him. Stupid coward didn't even turn up to his own fight.

The Foresight shield blinks.  Horus knows what it is, but Cleetus got to it first, and is now obviously under some sort of mind control.

## End Combat.

Louie searches the Thrall's body - he's a psychiatric patient from Neufurchtenburg, according to his papers. Rusty finds dossiers and one memory crystal. The dossiers are capability reports on Rusty and The Captain, but they're out of date.  There's another report on Haji, but it's crossed out.  The crystal is a memory of my encounter with Zellix when he was cast out of Bluetspur.

Adam asks Bark where his two friends are - he replies that his memories are fuzzy and fragmented, but there was an attack on this facility by good Mind Flayers.  They beat the good Mind Flayers off, but after that his two friends were moved to TSSRF.

Anyway, we're all tired.  Cleetus, still mind-controlled, makes a half-hearted effort to kill Rusty in his sleep, but drops the ball.  We destroy the shield, temporarily blinding Xalititty. In the morning we return to the Monastery.

# Where we part ways

Adam shows us to the prisoners from Ludendorf.  Once we take custody of them, and perform the requested memory modification, he sets off to Neufurchtenburg. He asks if we wist to accompany him - we demur, but Rusty and Horus both express great interest in watching how his teleportation via Lightning works.  Rusty gets some excellent readings from his instruments, and any future costs to produce a device capable of replicating the ability are reduced by one third.  Horus, being the right race, feels that he _should_ be able to do this, but that some dark, oppressive force is holding him back.  Once he exits the dark realms and returns to Limbo, though - he's convinced he will be able to do it there.

Raymond gets an upgrade - he now gets Death Guard free, once per day.

We head back down the mountain with our rescued captives, and upon reaching the camp we came through, we find the researcher that ran away down the mountain.  She is in a bad way.  We heal her up, and she tells us her story.  She is sorry she was so nervous about us, and she did try to get to the Dreadnaught, but there was some field that caused her damage once she got far enough down the mountain.  We check, and now that we have shut down Xalititties lab, the field is gone.

We all make is safely to the Dreadnaught.

# Post-credit spoiler

Xalititty is sitting in his lair, rubbing his blind eyes (suck it!).  A voice calls to him across the domains - he answers.  

"You do realize he made very quick work of your latest creations.  He decimated them without even turning away from his organ playing.  It's like they only existed for comedic effect.  Vlad and Azalin are having to postpone their invasion plans because of you.  You said you had these brilliant plan to create all these stupid jellyfish monstrosities.  We've been waiting for results from you since back when Bluetspur was still a domain."

He responds: "Lyssa, I'm trying to get things set up, but problems are following me.  Tell Vlad and Azalin the invasion can start soon."

"I expect results from you soon, or I'll send you through the towers to fight my uncle myself!"

Xalititty cuts the call, like a coward.
