---
layout: post
title:  "Session 61 - Turns out Adam is a whiny sook."
campaign: Lamordia
date:   2026-05-31 15:13:39 +1100
categories: jekyll update
---
# Partial - will be finished later

# We chat with Adam

Cleetus asks Adam how he feels about frogs, but unfortunately Louie doesn't get squished as a result.  We then ask him what his relationship with Dr Mordenheim is, and he spins a long tale of how hard done by he is.  I mean, fair enough - vivisection is no fun - but hey, he's alive, right?  Better than the 11 that came before him, and none of them threw a young girl out a window.

The short version is Dr Victor Mordenheim created Adam, but didn't treat him well. Dr Mordenheim was married to Alyse, and she did treat Adam well.  He has a bit of a Oedipus complex.  Alyse and Victor were also trying to have a baby, but it wasn't working.  According to the story, Alyse was infertile, but I didn't hear about any testing - my money's on Victor shooting blanks.

With no child of their own on the way, they choose to adopt and bring home a young girl called Eva.  Adam has standard first child jealousy and Eva was a bit of a bitch to him. When she teased him for "not being real" he decided to frighten her by hanging her out a window, then accidentally dropped her when Alyse came in and surprised him. Alyse then hit Adam, and he responded by killing Alyse.  When Victor came into the room, Adam jumped out the window and ran away.

This is when Lamordia entered the Mists.  Victor thinks it is because Adam is the big bad.  Adam thinks it is because Victor is the big bad (with his hopeless fixation on resurrecting Alyse).  Rusty is suspicious that the resurrected Eva is who everyone thinks she is, because she seems a lot chummier with Adam than she was originally, and also appears to be intent on stirring up trouble.

We find out that Adam's children are about to launch a terrorist attack on Neufurctenburg.  Sounds self defeating, but whatever.

Adam distracts us from our growing unease about that with information about Xalititties lair.

He also doesn't think the Baron is a golem.

Horus gets retrofitted with some upgrades. 

Eva tells that party that the first 3 freed domains were freebies, but we were to **knock that shit off**.  We knew she was suspicious.  Cletus responds by giving the Raven Queen a wet willy.  She is righteously pissed off, but Cletus saves with a truly awesome roll (we all helped).

